# もらう (1)

## Summary

<table><tr>   <td>Summary</td>   <td>The first person or someone the speaker empathises with receives something from someone whose status is not as high as the receiver’s.</td></tr><tr>   <td>English</td>   <td>Get; receive; be given</td></tr><tr>   <td>Part of speech</td>   <td>Verb (Group 1)</td></tr><tr>   <td>Related expression</td>   <td>くれる1 (あげる1)</td></tr></table>

## Example Sentences

<table><tr>   <td>（私は）山本さんに本をもらった・もらいました。</td>   <td>I got a book from Mr. Yamamoto.</td></tr><tr>   <td>山川さんは橋本さんにウイスキーをもらった。</td>   <td>Mr. Yamakawa got whiskey from Mr. Hashimoto.</td></tr><tr>   <td>（あなたは）モリスさんに何をもらったの？</td>   <td>What did you get from Mr. Morris?</td></tr></table>

<p>1. <span class="cloze">もらう</span>, which is one of a set of giving and receiving verbs, means 'get'. Unlike the English get, however, <span class="cloze">もらう</span> is used only when the receiver is the first person or someone with whom the speaker empathizes (usually a member of the speaker's in-group). Thus, (1) is unacceptable.</p>  <ul>(1) <li>*山本さんは私に酒を<span class="cloze">もらった</span>。</li> <li>Mr. Yamamoto got sake from me.</li> </ul>  <p>The reason for this is as follows: <span class="cloze">もらう</span> requires the receiver's point or view when describing an event, and when an event involves the first person, the event is normally described from the first person's point of view. Therefore, if the first person is the giver in <span class="cloze">もらう</span> sentences, a viewpoint conflict arises, making the sentences ungrammatical. (The situation seen in (1) is usually described using あげる.)</p>   <p>(⇨ <a href="#㊦ あげる (1)">あげる1</a>)</p>  <p>2. The humble polite version of <span class="cloze">もらう</span> is <span class="cloze">いただく</span>. Example:</p>  <ul>(2) <li>私は先生に本を<span class="cloze">いただいた</span>。</li> <li>I was given a book by my teacher.</li> </ul>  <p>3. The giver can also be marked by the source から 'from' (i.e., から1).</p>  <p>(⇨ <a href="#㊦ に (3)">に3</a>)</p>  <ul>(3) <li>私は山本さんに/から本を<span class="cloze">もらった</span>。</li> <li>I got a book from Mr. Yamamoto.</li> </ul>  <p>However, if the giver is not human, から is more appropriate than に, as seen in (4).</p>  <ul>(4) <li>私は日本政府から/??にお金を<span class="cloze">もらった</span>。</li> <li>I received some money from the Japanese government.</li> </ul>  <p>This seems to be due to the fact that から1 carries the idea of source, while に conveys the idea of direct contact. That is, unlike the situation in (3), the speaker in (4) does not have direct contact with the giver, the Japanese government, when receiving money. Rather, the Japanese government in (4) is merely the source of the money received.</p>  <p>4. In declarative sentences, if the subject is the speaker, it is often omitted. Similarly, in interrogative sentences, if the subject is the hearer, it is often omitted. (See Key Sentence and Example (b).)</p>

