# Grammar Guide

<table><tr><td>1.md. <a href='items/1.md'>は～だ</a></td><td><ul><li>Someone or something is/was someone or something or is/was in some state, or will do/does/did something.</li><li>Structure</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>2.md. <a href='items/2.md'>が (1)</a></td><td><ul><li>A particle which indicates the subject.</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>3.md. <a href='items/3.md'>ね</a></td><td><ul><li>A sentence final particle that indicates the speaker’s request for confirmation or agreement from the hearer about some shared knowledge.</li><li>Meaning: English tag question (such as isn’t it?; is it?; don’t you?; do you?); you know</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>4.md. <a href='items/4.md'>わ (2)</a></td><td><ul><li>A sentence final particle used in weak assertive or volitional sentences by a female speaker.</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>5.md. <a href='items/5.md'>ましょう</a></td><td><ul><li>A verb ending which indicates the first person’s volition or invitation in formal speech.</li><li>Meaning: I/We will do something; Let’s do something.</li><li>Auxiliary</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>6.md. <a href='items/6.md'>か (1)</a></td><td><ul><li>A particle which marks an alternative.</li><li>Meaning: (either) ~ or ~</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>7.md. <a href='items/7.md'>か (2)</a></td><td><ul><li>A sentence final particle which indicates that the preceding sentence is interrogative.</li><li>Meaning: Whether; if</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>8.md. <a href='items/8.md'>かい</a></td><td><ul><li>A sentence final particle which marks yes-no questions in informal male speech.</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>9.md. <a href='items/9.md'>かしら</a></td><td><ul><li>A sentence final particle which expresses the idea that the female speaker wonders about something.</li><li>Meaning: I wonder</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>10.md. <a href='items/10.md'>ある (1)</a></td><td><ul><li>An inanimate thing exists.</li><li>Meaning: Be; exist; have</li><li>Verb (Group 1)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>11.md. <a href='items/11.md'>ある (2)</a></td><td><ul><li>Something has been done to something and the resultant state of that action remains.</li><li>Meaning: Have been done; be done</li><li>Auxiliary Verb (Group 1)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>12.md. <a href='items/12.md'>いる (1)</a></td><td><ul><li>An animate thing exists.</li><li>Meaning: Be; exist; stay</li><li>Verb (Group 2)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>13.md. <a href='items/13.md'>いる (2)</a></td><td><ul><li>Someone or something is doing something he or it started some time ago, or is in a state created by an action he or it took some time ago.</li><li>Meaning: >Be ~ing; have done (something)</li><li>Auxiliary Verb (Group 2)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>14.md. <a href='items/14.md'>する (1)</a></td><td><ul><li>Someone/something causes a state or action to take place.</li><li>Meaning: Do; make; play; play the role of ~; wear</li><li>Verb (Irregular)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>15.md. <a href='items/15.md'>お</a></td><td><ul><li>A prefix that expresses politeness.</li><li>Prefix</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>16.md. <a href='items/16.md'>もう</a></td><td><ul><li>Someone or something is no longer in the same state that he or it was in some time ago.</li><li>Meaning: (not) anymore; (not) any longer; already; yet; now</li><li>Adverb</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>17.md. <a href='items/17.md'>まだ</a></td><td><ul><li>Someone or something is in some state he or it was in some time ago.</li><li>Meaning: Still; (not) yet</li><li>Adverb</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>18.md. <a href='items/18.md'>の (1)</a></td><td><ul><li>A particle which, with a preceding noun phrase, forms a phrase to modify a following noun phrase.</li><li>Meaning: ‘s; of; in; at; for; by; from</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>19.md. <a href='items/19.md'>の (2)</a></td><td><ul><li>A dependent indefinite pronoun.</li><li>Meaning: One</li><li>Pronoun</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>20.md. <a href='items/20.md'>の (3)</a></td><td><ul><li>A nominaliser which is used when the nominalised sentence expresses a directly perceptible event.</li><li>Meaning: That ~; to do something; doing something</li><li>Nominaliser</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>21.md. <a href='items/21.md'>のだ</a></td><td><ul><li>A sentence ending which indicates that the speaker is explaining or asking for an explanation about some information shared with the hearer, or is talking about something emotively, as if it were of common interest to the speaker and the hearer.</li><li>Meaning: The explanation is that ~; The reason is that ~; The fact is that ~; It is that ~</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>22.md. <a href='items/22.md'>ので</a></td><td><ul><li>A subordinate conjunction which expresses a reason or a cause.</li><li>Meaning: So; since; because</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>23.md. <a href='items/23.md'>を (1)</a></td><td><ul><li>A particle which marks a direct object.</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>24.md. <a href='items/24.md'>を (2)</a></td><td><ul><li>A particle which indicates a space in/on/across/through/along which someone or something moves.</li><li>Meaning: In; on; across; through; along; over</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>25.md. <a href='items/25.md'>のに (1)</a></td><td><ul><li>Contrary to everybody’s expectation based on the sentence preceding [x], the proposition in the sentence following [x] is the case.</li><li>Meaning: Even though; despite the fact that ~; although; but; in spite of the fact that ~</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>26.md. <a href='items/26.md'>でも</a></td><td><ul><li>The て form of です plus も ‘even’.</li><li>Meaning: Even</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>27.md. <a href='items/27.md'>は (1)</a></td><td><ul><li>A particle which marks a topic or a contrastive element.</li><li>Meaning: Talking about ~; as for ~; the</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>28.md. <a href='items/28.md'>も</a></td><td><ul><li>A particle which indicates that a proposition about the preceeding element X is also true when another similar proposition is true.</li><li>Meaning: Too; also; (not) ~ either</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>29.md. <a href='items/29.md'>どう</a></td><td><ul><li>An interrogative adverb which asks about the state of someone/something or the way of doing something.</li><li>Meaning: How; in what way</li><li>Adverb</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>30.md. <a href='items/30.md'>くらい</a></td><td><ul><li>Approximate quantity or extent.</li><li>Meaning: Approximately; about</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>31.md. <a href='items/31.md'>へ</a></td><td><ul><li>A particle that indicates the direction toward which some directional movement or action proceeds.</li><li>Meaning: To; towards</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>32.md. <a href='items/32.md'>出す・だす</a></td><td><ul><li>Something that has been latent is realised.</li><li>Meaning: Out; begin to; start to</li><li>Auxiliary Verb (Group 1)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>33.md. <a href='items/33.md'>で (1)</a></td><td><ul><li>A particle which indicates location, except for location of existence.</li><li>Meaning: At; in; on</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>34.md. <a href='items/34.md'>から (1)</a></td><td><ul><li>A particle which indicates a starting point or a source.</li><li>Meaning: From; since; out of</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>35.md. <a href='items/35.md'>から (2)</a></td><td><ul><li>After/since a point in time at which something takes place.</li><li>Meaning: After; having done something; since (time)</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>36.md. <a href='items/36.md'>と (1)</a></td><td><ul><li>A particle which lists things exhaustively.</li><li>Meaning: And</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>37.md. <a href='items/37.md'>と (2)</a></td><td><ul><li>A particle marking the noun phrase which maintains a reciprocal relationship with the subject of a clause.</li><li>Meaning: With; as; from</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>38.md. <a href='items/38.md'>て</a></td><td><ul><li>The て form ending of verbs and い-type adjectives (The て form ending of な-type adjectives and the て form of the copula is で.)</li><li>Meaning: And; -ing</li><li>て Form</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>39.md. <a href='items/39.md'>だけ</a></td><td><ul><li>A particle which expresses a limit imposed upon something that is growing and expanding.</li><li>Meaning: Only; just; alone; merely; that’s all</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>40.md. <a href='items/40.md'>も~も</a></td><td><ul><li>The repeated use of a particle meaning ‘also’ to list elements belonging to the same part of speech.</li><li>Meaning: Both ~ and ~; neither ~ nor</li><li>Structure</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>41.md. <a href='items/41.md'>し</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction to indicate ‘and’ in an emphatic way.</li><li>Meaning: And what’s more; not only ~ but also ~; so</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>42.md. <a href='items/42.md'>のに (2)</a></td><td><ul><li>In the process or for the purpose of doing something expressed in the の nominalised clause.</li><li>Meaning: In the process of doing ~; (in order) to do ~; for the purpose of ~</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>43.md. <a href='items/43.md'>という</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase marking information which identifies or explains the noun following the phrase.</li><li>Meaning: Called; that says ~; that</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>44.md. <a href='items/44.md'>って (1)</a></td><td><ul><li>A colloquial topic-introducer.</li><li>Meaning: Speaking of ~</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>45.md. <a href='items/45.md'>時・とき</a></td><td><ul><li>A dependent noun which indicates the time when someone/something will do/does/did something or the time when someone/something will be/is/was in some state.</li><li>Meaning: At the time when; when</li><li>Noun</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>46.md. <a href='items/46.md'>もの（だ）</a></td><td><ul><li>The speaker presents some situation as if it were a tangible object.</li><li>Meaning: Because; how could ~!; used to; should like to; should</li><li>Noun</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>47.md. <a href='items/47.md'>こと (1)</a></td><td><ul><li>A thing which is intangible.</li><li>Meaning: Thing; what</li><li>Noun</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>48.md. <a href='items/48.md'>つもり</a></td><td><ul><li>An intention or conviction of a speaker (or a person with whom the speaker can empathise) about his future or past actions or current state.</li><li>Meaning: Intend to ~; be convinced that ~; believe; feel sure that ~; be going to; mean</li><li>Noun</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>49.md. <a href='items/49.md'>はず</a></td><td><ul><li>A dependant noun which expresses the speaker’s expectation that something will take place or took place or that someone/something is or was in some state.</li><li>Meaning: I expect that ~; it is expected that ~; ~ is expected to; I am fairly certain that ~; should; ought to; it is natural that ~; no wonder ~</li><li>Noun</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>50.md. <a href='items/50.md'>為（に）・ため（に）</a></td><td><ul><li>A noun that indicates a benefit, a purpose, a reason or a cause.</li><li>Meaning: On account of ~; for the benefit of ~; for the good of ~; for the sake of ~; on behalf of ~; for the purpose of ~; in order to ~; because of ~; owing to ~</li><li>Noun</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>51.md. <a href='items/51.md'>ほうがいい</a></td><td><ul><li>It is strongly suggested that someone do something.</li><li>Meaning: Had better do something</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>52.md. <a href='items/52.md'>か(どうか)</a></td><td><ul><li>A marker for an embedded yes-no question.</li><li>Meaning: Whether or not; if (~ or not)</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>53.md. <a href='items/53.md'>たって</a></td><td><ul><li>Even if someone did something or something were in some state (the desired result would not come about) or even if someone or something is in some state.</li><li>Meaning: Even if ~</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>54.md. <a href='items/54.md'>行く・いく (1)</a></td><td><ul><li>Someone or something moves in a direction away from the speaker or the speaker’s viewpoint.</li><li>Meaning: Go; come</li><li>Verb (Group 1)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>55.md. <a href='items/55.md'>下さい・ください</a></td><td><ul><li>An auxiliary verb which indicates a polite request.</li><li>Meaning: Please do something</li><li>Auxiliary Verb (Imperative Form)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>56.md. <a href='items/56.md'>呉れる・くれる (1)</a></td><td><ul><li>Someone whose status is not higher than the speaker’s gives something to the first person or to someone with whom the speaker empathises.</li><li>Meaning: Give</li><li>Verb (Group 2)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>57.md. <a href='items/57.md'>呉れる・くれる (2)</a></td><td><ul><li>Someone does something as a favour to the first person or to someone with whom the speaker empathises.</li><li>Meaning: Do something (for me or someone); do me or someone a favour by doing something</li><li>Auxiliary Verb (Group 2)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>58.md. <a href='items/58.md'>来る・くる (1)</a></td><td><ul><li>Someone or something moves in a direction towards the speaker or the speaker’s viewpoint or area of empathy.</li><li>Meaning: Come; visit; show up</li><li>Verb (Irregular)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>59.md. <a href='items/59.md'>として</a></td><td><ul><li>A compound particle which indicates the capacity, role or function of someone or something.</li><li>Meaning: As; in the capacity of</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>60.md. <a href='items/60.md'>ないで</a></td><td><ul><li>A negative て form of a verb.</li><li>Meaning: Do not do something and; without doing ~</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>61.md. <a href='items/61.md'>なくて</a></td><td><ul><li>A て form of the negative ない, which indicates a cause/reason for a state or action.</li><li>Meaning: Do not do something and ~; is not ~ and ~; because ~ do not do something</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>62.md. <a href='items/62.md'>ようだ</a></td><td><ul><li>An auxiliary な type adjective which expresses the likelihood of something/someone or the likeness of something/someone to something/someone.</li><li>Meaning: Look like; look as if; be like; appear; seem</li><li>Auxiliary Adjective (な)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>63.md. <a href='items/63.md'>欲しい・ほしい (1)</a></td><td><ul><li>Something is desired by the speaker.</li><li>Meaning: Want (something)</li><li></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>64.md. <a href='items/64.md'>だい</a></td><td><ul><li>A sentence final particle which indicates an interrogative word question in informal male speech.</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>65.md. <a href='items/65.md'>多い・おおい</a></td><td><ul><li>(of quantity or number) a lot</li><li>Meaning: Many; a lot of; much</li><li>Adjective (い)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>66.md. <a href='items/66.md'>がる</a></td><td><ul><li>An auxiliary verb attached to a psychological/physiological adjective meaning a person other than the speaker shows signs of ~</li><li>Meaning: Show signs of ~</li><li>Auxiliary Verb (Group 1)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>67.md. <a href='items/67.md'>に (1)</a></td><td><ul><li>A particle that indicates a point of time at which something takes place.</li><li>Meaning: At; in; on</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>68.md. <a href='items/68.md'>に (2)</a></td><td><ul><li>An indirect object marker.</li><li>Meaning: To; for</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>69.md. <a href='items/69.md'>あとで</a></td><td><ul><li>Some state or action takes place at a time (not always immediately) after another state or action has taken place.</li><li>Meaning: After</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>70.md. <a href='items/70.md'>ば</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction which indicates that the preceding clause expresses a conditional.</li><li>Meaning: If</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>71.md. <a href='items/71.md'>たら</a></td><td><ul><li>A subordinate conjunction which indicates that the action/state expressed by the main clause in a sentence takes place after the action/state expressed by the subordinate clause.</li><li>Meaning: If; when; after</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>72.md. <a href='items/72.md'>なら</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction which indicates that the preceding sentence is the speaker’s supposition about the truth of a present or past fact or the actualisation of something in the future.</li><li>Meaning: If it is true that; if it is the case that; if; would; could</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>73.md. <a href='items/73.md'>はいけない</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase which indicates prohibition.</li><li>Meaning: Cannot do something; must not do something; don’t do something; should not do something</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>74.md. <a href='items/74.md'>なければならない</a></td><td><ul><li>It won’t do if someone does not take some action or if someone or something is not in some state.</li><li>Meaning: Have to; must; need</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>75.md. <a href='items/75.md'>な</a></td><td><ul><li>A negative imperative marker used by a male speaker in very informal speech</li><li>Meaning: Don't do ~</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>76.md. <a href='items/76.md'>ても</a></td><td><ul><li>[x] is used when that which is expressed in the main clause is not what is expected from the content of the dependent ([x]) clause.</li><li>Meaning: Even if; although</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>77.md. <a href='items/77.md'>てもいい</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase which expresses persmission or concession.</li><li>Meaning: May; It is all right if</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>78.md. <a href='items/78.md'>みる</a></td><td><ul><li>Do something to see what it’s like or what will happen.</li><li>Meaning: Do something and see; try to do something</li><li>Auxiliary Verb (Group 2)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>79.md. <a href='items/79.md'>しまう</a></td><td><ul><li>An auxiliary verb which indicates the completion of an action.</li><li>Meaning: Have dome something; finish doing something; finish something up</li><li>Auxiliary Verb (Group 1)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>80.md. <a href='items/80.md'>おく</a></td><td><ul><li>Do something in advance for future convenience.</li><li>Meaning: Do something in advance; go ahead and do something; let someone/something remain as he/it is</li><li>Auxiliary Verb (Group 1)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>81.md. <a href='items/81.md'>だろう</a></td><td><ul><li>An auxiliary indicating the speaker’s conjecture which is not based on any particular information or evidence.</li><li>Meaning: Probably</li><li>Auxiliary</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>82.md. <a href='items/82.md'>かもしれない</a></td><td><ul><li>Can't tell if ~</li><li>Meaning: Might</li><li>Auxiliary Adjective (い)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>83.md. <a href='items/83.md'>なさい</a></td><td><ul><li>A polite imperative used by superiors such as parents or teachers to their inferiors (=people of younger age and lower rank)</li><li>Meaning: Do something</li><li>Auxiliary Verb</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>84.md. <a href='items/84.md'>ことが出来る・できる</a></td><td><ul><li>Doing something is possible</li><li>Meaning: Can; be able to</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>85.md. <a href='items/85.md'>は～が</a></td><td><ul><li>A construction which relates a non-controllable state of something or someone to a topic</li><li>Structure</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>86.md. <a href='items/86.md'>あげる (1)</a></td><td><ul><li>Someone gives something to a person who is not a member of the giver’s in group but whose status is about equal to that of the giver.</li><li>Meaning: Give</li><li>Verb (Group 2)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>87.md. <a href='items/87.md'>もらう (1)</a></td><td><ul><li>The first person or someone the speaker empathises with receives something from someone whose status is not as high as the receiver’s.</li><li>Meaning: Get; receive; be given</li><li>Verb (Group 1)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>88.md. <a href='items/88.md'>そうだ (1)</a></td><td><ul><li>An auxiliary which indicates that the information expressed by the preceding sentence is what the speaker heard.</li><li>Meaning: I hear that ~; I heard that ~; people say that ~</li><li>Auxiliary</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>89.md. <a href='items/89.md'>それで</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction to indicate that what is stated in the preceding sentence is the reason or cause for what is stated in the following sentence.</li><li>Meaning: And; because of that; that is why; therefore; so</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>90.md. <a href='items/90.md'>らしい</a></td><td><ul><li>An auxiliary adjective which indicates that the preceding sentence is the speaker’s conjecture based on what he has heard, read or seen.</li><li>Meaning: Seem; look like; apparently; I heard</li><li>Auxiliary Adjective (い)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>91.md. <a href='items/91.md'>ように (1)</a></td><td><ul><li>Do something in such a way that ~.</li><li>Meaning: So that</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>92.md. <a href='items/92.md'>のは～だ</a></td><td><ul><li>A structure that indicates new, important information by placing it between [x] and the copula [x] ([x] is an indefinite pronoun ([x]2) that replaces ‘time’,’person’, ‘thing’, ‘place’ or ‘reason’.)</li><li>Meaning: It is ~ that ~; the one who ~ is ~; the place where ~ is ~; the reason why ~ is ~; the time when ~ is ~; what ~ is ~</li><li>Structure</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>93.md. <a href='items/93.md'>さ</a></td><td><ul><li>A suffix that makes a noun out of an adjective by attaching it to the stem of an Adj (い) or much less frequently to the stem of an Adj (な)</li><li>Meaning: -ness; -ly</li><li>Suffix</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>94.md. <a href='items/94.md'>が (2)</a></td><td><ul><li>A disjunctive coordinate conjunction that combines two sentences.</li><li>Meaning: But</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>95.md. <a href='items/95.md'>など</a></td><td><ul><li>A marker that indicates exemplification.</li><li>Meaning: And so on; and the like; for example; things like ~</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>96.md. <a href='items/96.md'>より (1)</a></td><td><ul><li>A particle which indicates that something/someone is being compared with something/someone.</li><li>Meaning: Than; rather ~ than ~; more ~ than ~</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>97.md. <a href='items/97.md'>ばかり</a></td><td><ul><li>A particle which indicates that something is the only thing or state which exists, or the action someone will take, takes, is taking or took.</li><li>Meaning: Only; just; be ready to do something; have just done something; just did something; be just doing something; about</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>98.md. <a href='items/98.md'>お～する</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase which humbly expresses the speaker’s politeness to someone when describing the speaker’s action or state that involves or affects that person.</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>99.md. <a href='items/99.md'>ことがある (1)</a></td><td><ul><li>There was a time when ~</li><li>Meaning: Someone has done something; someone has had an experience doing something; there was a time when ~</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>100.md. <a href='items/100.md'>要る・いる (3)</a></td><td><ul><li>Someone, something needs something</li><li>Meaning: Need</li><li>Verb (Group 1)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>101.md. <a href='items/101.md'>お～になる</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase which expresses the speaker’s respect for someone when describing that person’s action or state</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>102.md. <a href='items/102.md'>ごろ</a></td><td><ul><li>Approximately (with a specific point of time).</li><li>Meaning: About; around</li><li>Suffix</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>103.md. <a href='items/103.md'>ようと思う</a></td><td><ul><li>The speaker desires or decides to do something.</li><li>Meaning: ~ think ~ will</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>104.md. <a href='items/104.md'>ことになる</a></td><td><ul><li>An event takes place as if spontaneously, irrespective of the speaker's volition.</li><li>Meaning: It will be decided that ~; come about ~; be arranged that ~; turn out that ~</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>105.md. <a href='items/105.md'>の (4)</a></td><td><ul><li>A sentence-final particle used by a female or a child to indicate an explanation or emotive emphasis.</li><li>Meaning: It is that ~</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>106.md. <a href='items/106.md'>それなら</a></td><td><ul><li>If that is the case,</li><li>Meaning: Then; in that case</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>107.md. <a href='items/107.md'>少ない・すくない</a></td><td><ul><li>Small in number of quantity.</li><li>Meaning: Few; a small number of; little; a small quantity of ~</li><li>Adjective (い)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>108.md. <a href='items/108.md'>を (3)</a></td><td><ul><li>A particle that marks the location from which some movement begins.</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>109.md. <a href='items/109.md'>を (4)</a></td><td><ul><li>A particle that marks the cause of some human emotion.</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>110.md. <a href='items/110.md'>に (3)</a></td><td><ul><li>A particle that indicates an agent or a source in passive, causative, もらう/てまらう and other receiving constructions.</li><li>Meaning: By; from</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>111.md. <a href='items/111.md'>に (4)</a></td><td><ul><li>A particle that indicates the surface of something upon which some action directly takes place.</li><li>Meaning: On; onto</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>112.md. <a href='items/112.md'>で (2)</a></td><td><ul><li>A particle which indicates the use of something for doing something.</li><li>Meaning: By; for; from; in; on; using; with</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>113.md. <a href='items/113.md'>で (3)</a></td><td><ul><li>A particle (apparently derived from the て form of です) that indicates a weak causal relationship.</li><li>Meaning: And; because of; due to; because</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>114.md. <a href='items/114.md'>する (2)</a></td><td><ul><li>Someone or something has some (semi)permanent attribute.</li><li>Meaning: Have</li><li>Verb (Irregular)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>115.md. <a href='items/115.md'>する (3)</a></td><td><ul><li>Something is perceived by someone’s non-visual senses.</li><li>Meaning: Fear; smell; hear</li><li>Verb (Irregular)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>116.md. <a href='items/116.md'>間・あいだ(に)</a></td><td><ul><li>The space between two temporal or physical points.</li><li>Meaning: During (the time when); while</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>117.md. <a href='items/117.md'>やはり</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverb indicating that the actual situation expectedly/anticipatively conforms to a standard based on past experience, comparison with other people, or common sense.</li><li>Meaning: Still; also; after all; as expected; you know</li><li>Adverb</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>118.md. <a href='items/118.md'>も (2)</a></td><td><ul><li>A marker which indicates emphasis.</li><li>Meaning: Even; as many/much/long/...as; (not) even (one); (not) any</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>119.md. <a href='items/119.md'>そうだ (2)</a></td><td><ul><li>An auxiliary adjective which indicates that what is expressed by the preceding sentence is the speaker’s conjecture concerning an event in the future or the present state of someone or something, based on what the speaker sees or feels.</li><li>Meaning: Look; look like; appear; seem; feel like</li><li>Auxiliary Adjective (な)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>120.md. <a href='items/120.md'>や</a></td><td><ul><li>A coordinate conjunction that is used to list two or more items (nouns or noun phrases) in an inexhaustive fashion.</li><li>Meaning: And</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>121.md. <a href='items/121.md'>で (4)</a></td><td><ul><li>A particle which indicates the time when something terminates or the amount of time a period of activity has taken.</li><li>Meaning: At; on; in</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>122.md. <a href='items/122.md'>から (3)</a></td><td><ul><li>A subordinate conjunction which expresses a reason or a cause.</li><li>Meaning: So; since; because</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>123.md. <a href='items/123.md'>こと (2)</a></td><td><ul><li>A nominaliser used to indicate the speaker’s relative lack of empathy with the content of the sentence he is nominalising.</li><li>Meaning: To ~; ~ing; that</li><li>Nominaliser</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>124.md. <a href='items/124.md'>だけで(は)なく～(も)</a></td><td><ul><li>Not only X but also Y, where X and Y can be either a noun, a verb, or an adjective.</li><li>Meaning: Not only ~ but also ~</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>125.md. <a href='items/125.md'>方・かた</a></td><td><ul><li>A noun forming suffix that indicates a way or a manner in which one does something.</li><li>Meaning: A way of; a manner of; how to</li><li>Suffix</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>126.md. <a href='items/126.md'>けれども</a></td><td><ul><li>A disjunctive subordinate conjunction that combines two sentences.</li><li>Meaning: Although; though</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>127.md. <a href='items/127.md'>そして</a></td><td><ul><li>A coordinate conjunction that connects two sentences.</li><li>Meaning: And; and then</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>128.md. <a href='items/128.md'>知る・しる</a></td><td><ul><li>Someone gets information from some outside source.</li><li>Meaning: Get to know</li><li>Verb (Group 1)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>129.md. <a href='items/129.md'>それから</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction that indicates (1) temporally contiguous actions or states, or (2) a cumulative listing of objects, actions or states.</li><li>Meaning: After that; and then; in addition to that</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>130.md. <a href='items/130.md'>ことは</a></td><td><ul><li>Speaking of proposition X, X is certainly true.</li><li>Meaning: Indeed one does something alright, (but ~); indeed ~ (but ~); do ~ (but ~)</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>131.md. <a href='items/131.md'>にしては</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase that indicates a generally agreed upon standard (the entire sentence that includes this phrase expresses some deviation from that standard.)</li><li>Meaning: For ~; considering that ~</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>132.md. <a href='items/132.md'>行く・いく (2)</a></td><td><ul><li>Some action or state keeps changing from the point in time at which the speaker first describes the action.</li><li>Meaning: Go on ~ing; continue; grow; become</li><li>Auxiliary Verb (Group 1)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>133.md. <a href='items/133.md'>に違いない・にちがいない</a></td><td><ul><li>The speaker is convinced that there is no mistake on his part in guessing something.</li><li>Meaning: There is no doubt that ~; must be ~; no doubt</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>134.md. <a href='items/134.md'>それでは</a></td><td><ul><li>If that is the case</li><li>Meaning: If so; then; well then</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>135.md. <a href='items/135.md'>ように (2)</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverbial form of ようだ</li><li>Meaning: As; like</li><li>Auxiliary Adjective (な)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>136.md. <a href='items/136.md'>欲しい・ほしい (2)</a></td><td><ul><li>Want someone (who is not higher in status than the speaker) to do something.</li><li>Meaning: Want (someone) to do (something)</li><li>Auxiliary Adjective (い)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>137.md. <a href='items/137.md'>一番・いちばん</a></td><td><ul><li>A superlative marker.</li><li>Meaning: Most</li><li>Adverb</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>138.md. <a href='items/138.md'>ばよかった</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase which expresses the speaker’s regret.</li><li>Meaning: I wish ~ had done something</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>139.md. <a href='items/139.md'>たらどうですか</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase which expresses a suggestion (literally: How would you feel if you do something?)</li><li>Meaning: Why don't you do ~?; what about doing ~?</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>140.md. <a href='items/140.md'>としては</a></td><td><ul><li>A compound particle which indicates a standard for comparisons.</li><li>Meaning: For</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>141.md. <a href='items/141.md'>見える・みえる</a></td><td><ul><li>Someone or something is passively/spontaneously visible.</li><li>Meaning: Be visible; (can) see; look ~</li><li>Verb (Group 2)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>142.md. <a href='items/142.md'>好きだ・すきだ</a></td><td><ul><li>Something or someone is what someone likes.</li><li>Meaning: Like; be fond of</li><li>Adjective (な)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>143.md. <a href='items/143.md'>する (4)</a></td><td><ul><li>A verb that indicates how much something costs or a duration of time.</li><li>Meaning: Cost; lapse</li><li>Verb (Irregular)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>144.md. <a href='items/144.md'>あまり</a></td><td><ul><li>The degree of something is not great.</li><li>Meaning: (not) very much; (not) very</li><li>Adverb</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>145.md. <a href='items/145.md'>あげる (2)</a></td><td><ul><li>Someone gives some action as a favour to a person who is not a member of the giver’s in group but whose status is about equal of the giver.</li><li>Meaning: Do something for someone; do someone a favour by doing something</li><li>Auxiliary Verb (Group 2)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>146.md. <a href='items/146.md'>ほうが~より</a></td><td><ul><li>Comparing two entities, one is in some state or does something more than the other.</li><li>Meaning: ~ be more (adjective) than ~; ~ do something more (adverb) than ~ do</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>147.md. <a href='items/147.md'>ほど</a></td><td><ul><li>A particle which indicates an extent or a degree to which someone/something does something or is in some state.</li><li>Meaning: To the extent of; to the extent that ~; (not as) ~ as ~; about</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>148.md. <a href='items/148.md'>まで</a></td><td><ul><li>A particle to indicate a spatial, temporal or quantitative limit or an unexpected animate/inanimate object.</li><li>Meaning: As far as; till; up to; until; through; even</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>149.md. <a href='items/149.md'>君・くん</a></td><td><ul><li>A suffix attached to the first or last name of a male equal or to the first or last name of a person whose status or rank is lower than the speaker’s.</li><li>Suffix</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>150.md. <a href='items/150.md'>もらう (2)</a></td><td><ul><li>The first person or someone the speaker empathizes with receives some benefit from an action by someone whose status is not as high as the receiver’s.</li><li>Meaning: Receive benefit from an action by someone; have something done by someone; have someone do something.</li><li>Auxiliary Verb (Group 1)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>151.md. <a href='items/151.md'>難い・にくい</a></td><td><ul><li>Something or someone is hard to ~.</li><li>Meaning: Hard to ~; difficult to ~; don’t do something easily; not readily; not prone to ~</li><li>Auxiliary Adjective (い)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>152.md. <a href='items/152.md'>に (5)</a></td><td><ul><li>A particle which indicates purpose when someone moves from one place to another.</li><li>Meaning: To do something; in order to do something</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>153.md. <a href='items/153.md'>に (6)</a></td><td><ul><li>A particle which indicates the location where someone or something exists.</li><li>Meaning: In; at; on</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>154.md. <a href='items/154.md'>られる (1)</a></td><td><ul><li>A state or an action cannot be controlled by someone or something.</li><li>Meaning: Be –ed; get –ed</li><li>Auxiliary Verb (Group 2)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>155.md. <a href='items/155.md'>しか</a></td><td><ul><li>A particle which marks an element X when nothing but X makes the expressed proposition true.</li><li>Meaning: Nothing/nobody/no ~ but; only</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>156.md. <a href='items/156.md'>とか</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction that lists two or more items, actions or states as inexhaustive examples.</li><li>Meaning: And; or</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>157.md. <a href='items/157.md'>ところだ (1)</a></td><td><ul><li>A place is in a location which takes a certain amount of time to get to.</li><li>Meaning: ~ is (in) a place where it takes ~ to get to</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>158.md. <a href='items/158.md'>って (2)</a></td><td><ul><li>A colloquial quotation marker.</li><li>Meaning: That</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>159.md. <a href='items/159.md'>わけだ</a></td><td><ul><li>The speaker's conclusion obtained through deductive, logical judgment or calculation on the basis of what he has heard or read.</li><li>Meaning: No wonder; so it means that ~; that's why; should ~; I take it that ~; naturally</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>160.md. <a href='items/160.md'>来る・くる (2)</a></td><td><ul><li>An auxiliary verb which indicates the beginning of some process or continuation of some action up to a current point of time.</li><li>Meaning: Come about; grow; come to; begin to</li><li>Auxiliary Verb (Irregular)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>161.md. <a href='items/161.md'>代わりに・かわりに</a></td><td><ul><li>Something (including an action) replaces something else.</li><li>Meaning: In place of ~; instead of; to make up for ~; although; but</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>162.md. <a href='items/162.md'>自分・じぶん (1)</a></td><td><ul><li>A reflexive pronoun that refers (back) to a human subject with whom the speaker is empathising.</li><li>Meaning: ~ self; own</li><li>Pronoun</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>163.md. <a href='items/163.md'>自分・じぶん (2)</a></td><td><ul><li>A reflexive pronoun that refers (back) to a human subject, the referent of which is contrasted with someone else.</li><li>Meaning: ~ self; own</li><li>Pronoun</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>164.md. <a href='items/164.md'>ことがある (2)</a></td><td><ul><li>There are times when ~.</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>165.md. <a href='items/165.md'>までに</a></td><td><ul><li>A particle that indicates a time limit on/for an action.</li><li>Meaning: By; by the time (when)</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>166.md. <a href='items/166.md'>前に・まえに</a></td><td><ul><li>In front of or before some situation comes about.</li><li>Meaning: Before; in front of</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>167.md. <a href='items/167.md'>まま</a></td><td><ul><li>An already given situation or condition remains unaltered.</li><li>Meaning: As it is; unchanged; undisturbed; leave as is; remain</li><li>Noun</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>168.md. <a href='items/168.md'>ながら</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction which indicates that the action expressed by the preceding verb takes place concurrently or simultaneously with the action expressed in the main clause.</li><li>Meaning: While; over; with</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>169.md. <a href='items/169.md'>に (7)</a></td><td><ul><li>A particle which indicates a place toward which someone or something moves.</li><li>Meaning: To; toward.</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>170.md. <a href='items/170.md'>Relative Clause</a></td><td><ul></ul></td></tr><tr><td>171.md. <a href='items/171.md'>たり～たりする</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase which expresses an inexhaustive listing of action or states.</li><li>Meaning: Do things like ~ and ~; sometimes ~ and sometimes ~</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>172.md. <a href='items/172.md'>と (3)</a></td><td><ul><li>A particle which marks a quotation, sound or the manner in which someone/something does something.</li><li>Meaning: That; with the sound of; in the manner of</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>173.md. <a href='items/173.md'>と (4)</a></td><td><ul><li>A subordinate conjunction which marks a condition that brings about an uncontrollable event or state.</li><li>Meaning: If; when</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>174.md. <a href='items/174.md'>屋・や</a></td><td><ul><li>A suffix attached to names of stores, inns and Japanese style restaurants or to persons engaged in certain occupations</li><li>Meaning: Store</li><li>Suffix</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>175.md. <a href='items/175.md'>より (2)</a></td><td><ul><li>A particle which indicates a set point in terms of space or time.</li><li>Meaning: In ~ of; inside; outside; before; after</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>176.md. <a href='items/176.md'>と言えば</a></td><td><ul><li>An expression which presents as the topic of a following discourse a phrase which has just been uttered.</li><li>Meaning: Speaking of ~</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>177.md. <a href='items/177.md'>終わる・おわる</a></td><td><ul><li>Finish doing ~</li><li>Meaning: Finish; end</li><li>Auxiliary Verb (Group 1)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>178.md. <a href='items/178.md'>様・さま</a></td><td><ul><li>A suffix (originally meaning 'appearance') that indicates the speaker's/writer's politeness towards someone.</li><li>Meaning: Mr; Miss; Ms; Mrs</li><li>Suffix</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>179.md. <a href='items/179.md'>毎・まい</a></td><td><ul><li>A prefix which means ‘every (unit of time)’.</li><li>Meaning: Every; per</li><li>Prefix</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>180.md. <a href='items/180.md'>始める・はじめる</a></td><td><ul><li>Someone/something begins to do something or begins to be in some state.</li><li>Meaning: Begin to</li><li>Auxiliary Verb (Group 2)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>181.md. <a href='items/181.md'>ことにする</a></td><td><ul><li>A volitional decision to do something is made.</li><li>Meaning: Decide to</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>182.md. <a href='items/182.md'>なくなる</a></td><td><ul><li>It has reached the point where some state or action does not take place anymore.</li><li>Meaning: Not ~ any more</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>183.md. <a href='items/183.md'>させる</a></td><td><ul><li>Cause someone/something to do something or cause something to change its state.</li><li>Meaning: Make someone/something do something; cause someone/something to do something; let someone/something do something; allow someone/something to do something; have someone/something do something; get someone/something to do something.</li><li>Auxiliary Verb (Group 2)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>184.md. <a href='items/184.md'>過ぎる・すぎる</a></td><td><ul><li>Someone/something does something excessively or is in a state excessively.</li><li>Meaning: Too; do something too much/often; over-</li><li>Auxiliary Verb (Group 2)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>185.md. <a href='items/185.md'>堪らない・たまらない</a></td><td><ul><li>The speaker or whomever he empathises with cannot cope with a situation expressed by the て phrase.</li><li>Meaning: Unbearably ~; extremely; be dying to do ~</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>186.md. <a href='items/186.md'>ところだ (2)</a></td><td><ul><li>Someone/something is in the state where he/it is just about to do something, is doing something, has done something, or has been doing something.</li><li>Meaning: Be just about to do something; be in the midst of doing something; have just done something; have been doing something; almost did something</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>187.md. <a href='items/187.md'>にする</a></td><td><ul><li>Someone has decided on something.</li><li>Meaning: Decide on ~; make it ~</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>188.md. <a href='items/188.md'>られる (2)</a></td><td><ul><li>An auxiliary verb which indicates potential.</li><li>Meaning: Be able to do something; can do something; be –able; ~ can be done</li><li>Auxiliary Verb (Group 1)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>189.md. <a href='items/189.md'>易い・やすい</a></td><td><ul><li>Something or someone is easy to ~.</li><li>Meaning: Easy to; ready to; be apt to; prone to; do something easily</li><li>Auxiliary Adjective (い)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>190.md. <a href='items/190.md'>ようにする</a></td><td><ul><li>Someone causes some circumstantial or behavioural change to take place.</li><li>Meaning: Do ~ in such a way that ~; see to it that ~; make sure that ~; bring it about that ~</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>191.md. <a href='items/191.md'>分かる・わかる</a></td><td><ul><li>Can figure out (spontaneously) various facts –such as content, nature, value, meaning, cause, reason, result– about something whose existence is presupposed.</li><li>Meaning: Be comprehensible; understand; can tell; figure out</li><li>Verb (Group 1)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>192.md. <a href='items/192.md'>せっかく</a></td><td><ul><li>Some situation which seldom occurs has now occurred and one can either make use of it or, to one’s regret, cannot make use of it.</li><li>Meaning: With effort; at great pain; take the trouble to do ~</li><li>Adverb</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>193.md. <a href='items/193.md'>聞こえる・きこえる</a></td><td><ul><li>Something is passively and spontaneously audiable.</li><li>Meaning: Audible; (can) hear; it sounds</li><li>Verb (Group 2)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>194.md. <a href='items/194.md'>嫌いだ・きらいだ</a></td><td><ul><li>Something or someone is what someone does not like.</li><li>Meaning: Don’t like; dislike</li><li>Adjective (な)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>195.md. <a href='items/195.md'>すると</a></td><td><ul><li>A coordinate conjunction which connects two sentences (the second sentence either describes an event which takes place right after the event described in the first sentence or it expresses a logical guess related to the event in the first sentence.)</li><li>Meaning: Thereupon ~; then ~; and ~</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>196.md. <a href='items/196.md'>それとも</a></td><td><ul><li>A coordinate conjunction which connects two alternatives expressed by sentences.</li><li>Meaning: Or; either ~ or ~</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>197.md. <a href='items/197.md'>しい</a></td><td><ul><li>An infix attached to the stem of an adjective い to indicate something that one cannot objectively measure on any scale (e.g. human emotion).</li><li>Infix</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>198.md. <a href='items/198.md'>たい</a></td><td><ul><li>An auxiliary adjective which expresses a desire to do something.</li><li>Meaning: Want (to do something); would like (to do something)</li><li>Auxiliary Adjective (い)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>199.md. <a href='items/199.md'>ごとに</a></td><td><ul><li>Something takes place regularly in succession after a certain temporal or spatial interval.</li><li>Meaning: Every</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>200.md. <a href='items/200.md'>うちに</a></td><td><ul><li>During a period when a certain situation remains in effect.</li><li>Meaning: While; before; during</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>201.md. <a href='items/201.md'>ようになる</a></td><td><ul><li>Some change takes place gradually.</li><li>Meaning: Reach the point where ~; come to ~; it has come to be that ~; have finally become</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>202.md. <a href='items/202.md'>ように言う</a></td><td><ul><li>Tell someone in such a way that he will do something.</li><li>Meaning: Tell ~ to ~; say ~ in such a way</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>203.md. <a href='items/203.md'>ずつ</a></td><td><ul><li>A particle that indicates equal distribution of quantity.</li><li>Meaning: By; at a time.</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>204.md. <a href='items/204.md'>あまり</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction which marks a cause that involves excessive action.</li><li>Meaning: Because of too much ~; because ~ too much; so ~ that ~</li><li>Conjunction (used in writing and formal speech only)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>205.md. <a href='items/205.md'>~ば~ほど</a></td><td><ul><li>A structure indicating that something happens in proportion to the increase of extent/degree of action or state.</li><li>Meaning: The more ~, the more ~</li><li>Structure</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>206.md. <a href='items/206.md'>~ばかりか~（さえ）</a></td><td><ul><li>A compound particle/conjunction which is used to connect two nouns or two sentences, the first of which is something normally expected and the second of which is something normally unexpected.</li><li>Meaning: Not only ~ but also</li><li>Compound Particle/Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>207.md. <a href='items/207.md'>べきだ</a></td><td><ul><li>An auxiliary which expresses the speaker's judgment that someone/something should do something or should be in some state.</li><li>Meaning: Should; ought to</li><li>Auxiliary</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>208.md. <a href='items/208.md'>分</a></td><td><ul><li>A suffix which indicates the amount of something.</li><li>Meaning: For ~; ~ worth; amount equivalent to ~; portion</li><li>Suffix</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>209.md. <a href='items/209.md'>だが</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction that expresses something that is contrasted with what is expressed in the previous sentence.</li><li>Meaning: But; however; yet; nevertheless</li><li>Conjunction (used in writing and formal speech only)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>210.md. <a href='items/210.md'>だからと言って</a></td><td><ul><li>A coordinate conjunction indicating that even if one accepts a premise expressed in the preceding sentence(s) one cannot jump to an expected conclusion from the premise.</li><li>Meaning: However, it doesn't follow from this that ~; but it doesn't mean that ~; because of that</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>211.md. <a href='items/211.md'>だけで</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase which expresses the idea that just doing something is enough for something.</li><li>Meaning: Just V-ing is enough; can just ~; just by V-ing</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>212.md. <a href='items/212.md'>だらけ</a></td><td><ul><li>A suffix that indicates that something/someone is covered or filled with something undesirable.</li><li>Meaning: Full of; filled with; covered with</li><li>Suffix</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>213.md. <a href='items/213.md'>で</a></td><td><ul><li>A particle which indicates a basic quantity, for each of which certain amount is associated.</li><li>Meaning: For; per</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>214.md. <a href='items/214.md'>であろう</a></td><td><ul><li>An auxiliary which indicates the writer's conjecture which is not based on any particular information or evidence.</li><li>Meaning: Probably</li><li>Auxiliary (used in writing and formal speech only)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>215.md. <a href='items/215.md'>である</a></td><td><ul><li>A copula which is used in formal writing and formal speech.</li><li>Meaning: Be</li><li>Copula (used in writing and formal speech only)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>216.md. <a href='items/216.md'>どころか</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction indicating that someone/something is very far from an expected state.</li><li>Meaning: Far from; not just; even</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>217.md. <a href='items/217.md'>どうも</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverb to indicate that one cannot make a definite statement about something due to lack of hard evidence.</li><li>Meaning: I don't know why but; I cannot manage to; just; from what I gather; seem; no matter how ~; I gather that ~; for some reason</li><li>Adverb</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>218.md. <a href='items/218.md'>どんなに~（こと）か</a></td><td><ul><li>A structure that indicates an exclamation about the degree to which an action or state takes/took place.</li><li>Meaning: How ~ (!)</li><li>Structure</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>219.md. <a href='items/219.md'>どうせ</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverb that indicates the speaker/writer's feeling that no matter what s/he does or how s/he does it, the situation will not change.</li><li>Meaning: In any case; anyway; at all events; after all; at all</li><li>Adverb</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>220.md. <a href='items/220.md'>風に</a></td><td><ul><li>With an appearance/style/tone/manner of ~.</li><li>Meaning: In ~ manner; after ~ style; a la ~; like</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>221.md. <a href='items/221.md'>がち</a></td><td><ul><li>A suffix to express an undesirable tendency in someone or something.</li><li>Meaning: Tend to; be prone to; be apt to; be liable to; be subject to; often</li><li>Suffix</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>222.md. <a href='items/222.md'>がたい</a></td><td><ul><li>An auxiliary adjective which expresses the idea that for someone to do something is virtually impossible or impossible.</li><li>Meaning: Cannot; un—able; can hardly; difficult to; impossible</li><li>Auxiliary Adjective (い)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>223.md. <a href='items/223.md'>逆に</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverb to introduce an event which takes place contrary to one's expectation/intention, or an action or event which is converse to that stated in the preceding sentence or clause.</li><li>Meaning: Contrary to one's expectation; contrary to one's intention; conversely</li><li>Adverb</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>224.md. <a href='items/224.md'>ほど</a></td><td><ul><li>A particle which indicates the extent or the degree to which someone/something does something or is in some state.</li><li>Meaning: The ~, the ~; as; to the extent</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>225.md. <a href='items/225.md'>以外</a></td><td><ul><li>A dependent noun which means \"something/someone other than\".</li><li>Meaning: Other than; except (for); but; besides; as well as</li><li>Noun</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>226.md. <a href='items/226.md'>以上（は）</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction indicating the speaker/writer's feeling that there should be a very strong logical/natural connection between wht precedes the conjunction and what follows it.</li><li>Meaning: Since; now that; once; if ~ at all; as long as; so long as</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>227.md. <a href='items/227.md'>いかにも</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverb that indicates the speaker/writer's emotive conviction.</li><li>Meaning: Really; truly; indeed</li><li>Adverb</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>228.md. <a href='items/228.md'>Imperative</a></td><td><ul><li>Verb forms which indicate commands or requests.</li><li>Meaning: (don't) V.; No -ing; (not) to V</li><li></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>229.md. <a href='items/229.md'>一方で（は） ~ 他方で（は）</a></td><td><ul><li>A structure used to describe two concurring, contrastive actions/states of someone or something.</li><li>Meaning: On the one hand ~, on the other hand</li><li>Structure</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>230.md. <a href='items/230.md'>上</a></td><td><ul><li>A suffix which indicates the idea of \"from the viewpoint of,\" \"for the sake of,\" \"for the reason,\" or \"in terms of\".</li><li>Meaning: From the viewpoint of; for (the sake of); for (the reason); in (terms of); relating to; in –ing</li><li>Suffix</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>231.md. <a href='items/231.md'>かえって</a></td><td><ul><li>Contrary to one's expectation an opposite result comes about.</li><li>Meaning: On the contrary; rather</li><li>Adverb</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>232.md. <a href='items/232.md'>限り</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction which expresses the idea \"as long as (a certain condition is met)\" or \"as long as (= to the extent)\".</li><li>Meaning: As long as; as far as; while; to the extent; until; unless</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>233.md. <a href='items/233.md'>限り (2)</a></td><td><ul><li>A suffix which expresses the idea of \"(last) only until\" or \"limited\".</li><li>Meaning: The last; only until; from ~ on; limited to; only</li><li>Suffix</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>234.md. <a href='items/234.md'>か~か</a></td><td><ul><li>A structure to mark two choices or possibilities about which the speaker/writer is not sure.</li><li>Meaning: Whether ~ or; or</li><li>Structure</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>235.md. <a href='items/235.md'>かな</a></td><td><ul><li>A sentence-final particle that indicates a self-addressed question or a question addressed to an in-group member.</li><li>Meaning: I wonder if ~</li><li>Particle (used in conversation only)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>236.md. <a href='items/236.md'>必ずしも</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverb that indicates that the proposition expressed in the sentence is not always true.</li><li>Meaning: Not always; not necessarily</li><li>Adverb</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>237.md. <a href='items/237.md'>かねる</a></td><td><ul><li>An auxiliary expressing that someone cannot do something even if s/he wants to do it.</li><li>Meaning: Cannot; be not in a position to; hardly possible; hard; hesitate to do</li><li>Auxiliary Verb (Group 2)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>238.md. <a href='items/238.md'>から~に至るまで</a></td><td><ul><li>A structure that expresses a wide range of things.</li><li>Meaning: Starting with ~ ending with ~; from ~ to ~</li><li>Structure(used in writing and formal speech only)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>239.md. <a href='items/239.md'>から~にかけて</a></td><td><ul><li>A structure that expresses coverage from one time/location into the other.</li><li>Meaning: Through ~ into ~; through ~ on to; from ~ till/to</li><li>Structure</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>240.md. <a href='items/240.md'>からと言って</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction which introduces the reason for someone's action or for someone's having some idea, and conveys disapproval of the action or idea.</li><li>Meaning: Just because; even if; even though</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>241.md. <a href='items/241.md'>かろう</a></td><td><ul><li>An auxiliary indicating the writer's conjecture which is not based on any particular information or evidence.</li><li>Meaning: Probably</li><li>Auxiliary(used in writing and formal speech only)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>242.md. <a href='items/242.md'>方をする</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase to indicate a manner of doing something.</li><li>Meaning: Do something in a ~ fashion/manner/way</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>243.md. <a href='items/243.md'>かと言うと</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction to indicate the speaker's assertion that a popular belief is not right.</li><li>Meaning: You would think that ~ but (that is not right)</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>244.md. <a href='items/244.md'>（の）代わりに</a></td><td><ul><li>An action/state that is expressed in the subordinate clause is balanced by another action/state expressed in the main clause, or something/someone that is replaced by something/someone else.</li><li>Meaning: Instead of; instead; but (to make up for ~); so (to make up for ~); in place of</li><li>Conjunction/Compound Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>245.md. <a href='items/245.md'>結果</a></td><td><ul><li>A noun which expresses the idea \"as a result of\".</li><li>Meaning: As a result of; after; upon</li><li>Noun</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>246.md. <a href='items/246.md'>結構</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverb that indicates that something exceeds the speaker's and/or hearer's expectation to a considerable degree.</li><li>Meaning: Quite; rather; pretty</li><li>Adverb (used in conversation only)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>247.md. <a href='items/247.md'>この</a></td><td><ul><li>A demonstrative adjective which indicates a time or time period around the moment of speech.</li><li>Meaning: The last; this past; this; this coming</li><li>Demonstrative Adjective</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>248.md. <a href='items/248.md'>こうした</a></td><td><ul><li>A demonstrative which refers to someone or something mentioned as an example in previous discourse.</li><li>Meaning: Such; like this</li><li>Demonstrative Adjective</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>249.md. <a href='items/249.md'>こそ</a></td><td><ul><li>A particle which emphasizes a word, phrase, or clause.</li><li>Meaning: The very ~; it is ~; that ~; only (when, after, because, etc.); in particular; precisely; definitely; [an italicized or underlined word]</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>250.md. <a href='items/250.md'>こと</a></td><td><ul><li>An auxiliary noun to express a command.</li><li>Meaning: (don't) V; should (not); (not) ought to; may not</li><li>Auxiliary Noun (used in writing and formal speech only)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>251.md. <a href='items/251.md'>ことで</a></td><td><ul><li>A compound particle which indicates a means or a cause.</li><li>Meaning: By V-ing; because; result in; cause</li><li>Compound Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>252.md. <a href='items/252.md'>ことになる</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase which indicates that an action or event leads to a certain situation or logical conclusion.</li><li>Meaning: End up (with); cause; come to mean that</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>253.md. <a href='items/253.md'>ことによる</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase which is used to present an event as the cause of something.</li><li>Meaning: Be due to the fact that; be caused by; be brought about by; be the result of; because</li><li>Phrase (used in writing and formal speech only)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>254.md. <a href='items/254.md'>ことはない</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase which expresses the idea that there is no need to do something or that there is no possibility of doing something.</li><li>Meaning: There is no need to; not necessary; there is no possibility that; there is no chance to</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>255.md. <a href='items/255.md'>く</a></td><td><ul><li>A continuative form of an い-type adjective.</li><li>Meaning: And; so</li><li>Inflectional Ending (used in writing and formal speech only)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>256.md. <a href='items/256.md'>くらい</a></td><td><ul><li>A particle which is used to express the degree of a state.</li><li>Meaning: To the extent that; so ~ that ~ (almost) ~; at least; the only ~; rather than ~</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>257.md. <a href='items/257.md'>くせに</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction which expresses the speaker's contempt, anger, or disagreement about someone's action, behaviour, or state.</li><li>Meaning: Although; in spite of the fact that; and yet; but</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>258.md. <a href='items/258.md'>までもない</a></td><td><ul><li>There is no point in going as far as to do something.</li><li>Meaning: Not necessary (to bother) to; do not need (to go as far as) to; do not have to</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>259.md. <a href='items/259.md'>まい</a></td><td><ul><li>An auxiliary which expresses the speaker's negative volition or conjecture.</li><li>Meaning: Will not; will probably not; be probably not</li><li>Auxiliary (used in writing and formal speech only)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>260.md. <a href='items/260.md'>まさか</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverb that indicates the speaker's strong belief that something is not expected to (have) become a reality.</li><li>Meaning: Incredible; never thought; never dreamed; surely not; impossible; don't tell me that ~; not at all likely; absolutely not.</li><li>Adverb</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>261.md. <a href='items/261.md'>ましだ</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase indicating that although someone/something (or some situation) is not satisfactory it is better than someone/something else.</li><li>Meaning: Better; less objectionable; preferable; might as well ~</li><li>Adjective (な)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>262.md. <a href='items/262.md'>または</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction which connects two choices or possibilities expressed by noun phrases or sentences.</li><li>Meaning: Or; either ~ or ~</li><li>Conjunction (used in writing and formal speech only)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>263.md. <a href='items/263.md'>目</a></td><td><ul><li>A suffix which represents an ordinal number.</li><li>Meaning: -th; -th one</li><li>Suffix</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>264.md. <a href='items/264.md'>面</a></td><td><ul><li>A suffix which forms a compound that means a side of X, or an aspect of X.</li><li>Meaning: (on) the side of; (from) the aspect of; (from) the standpoint/viewpoint of; in terms of</li><li>Suffix</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>265.md. <a href='items/265.md'>みせる</a></td><td><ul><li>The speaker's strong determination to achieve something for others to see.</li><li>Meaning: Can manage to; will definitely do; am determined to</li><li>Auxiliary Verb (Group 2)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>266.md. <a href='items/266.md'>も</a></td><td><ul><li>A particle which implies that something else is also (not) the case.</li><li>Meaning: Also; too; (not) either; (not) even</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>267.md. <a href='items/267.md'>も~ば</a></td><td><ul><li>A structure which expresses the idea that a certain amount of something is sufficient to do something.</li><li>Meaning: Be enough to/for; if ~ at least; if ~ as much/many as ~, it will be enough to</li><li>Structure</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>268.md. <a href='items/268.md'>も~も</a></td><td><ul><li>A structure which presents two states or actions of someone or something.</li><li>Meaning: Both ~ and ~; neither ~ nor ~; also; (not) either</li><li>Structure</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>269.md. <a href='items/269.md'>もの（だ）</a></td><td><ul><li>A dependent noun which is used to create a sentence structure which presents a characteristic of something.</li><li>Meaning: (is) that which ~; (is) something which ~; (are) those which ~</li><li>Noun (used in writing and formal speech only)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>270.md. <a href='items/270.md'>なあ</a></td><td><ul><li>An exclamatory sentential particle which is used in informal male speech.</li><li>Meaning: How ~!; what ~! ~!; I wonder; I wish</li><li>Particle (used in conversation only)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>271.md. <a href='items/271.md'>などと</a></td><td><ul><li>A compound particle that indicates an approximate quote of words or ideas.</li><li>Meaning: (things) like ~; ~ or something like</li><li>Compound Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>272.md. <a href='items/272.md'>ながら（も）</a></td><td><ul><li>A disjunctive conjunction used normally in written Japanese with the meaning of 'although'.</li><li>Meaning: Although; even though; nevertheless</li><li>Conjunction (used in writing and formal speech only)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>273.md. <a href='items/273.md'>ないことも / はない</a></td><td><ul><li>A double negative phrase used to make a conditional affirmative statement.</li><li>Meaning: It isn't the case that ~ not ~; it is not that ~ not ~</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>274.md. <a href='items/274.md'>なかなか</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverb used to indicate the speaker's feelings that something is impressive or his annoyance at slowness or difficulty in achieving something.</li><li>Meaning: Quite; fairly; considerably; (not) easily; pretty; (not) readily</li><li>Adverb</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>275.md. <a href='items/275.md'>なく</a></td><td><ul><li>a continuative form of ない used in written Japanese (to indicate a reason/cause for what follows if ない is attached to Adjective (い/な) and contrast if it is attached to a Noun+Copula).</li><li>Meaning: Not ~ and; not ~ but</li><li>Inflection Ending (used in writing and formal speech only)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>276.md. <a href='items/276.md'>何でも</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase that indicates the speaker's uncertainty about something.</li><li>Meaning: I don't know for sure, but</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>277.md. <a href='items/277.md'>何しろ</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverb that indicates the speaker's emotive feeling about some extreme state of affairs.</li><li>Meaning: As a matter of fact; no matter what; believe it or not; you may be surprised, but ~; in fact; unbelievably</li><li>Adverb (used in conversation only)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>278.md. <a href='items/278.md'>ならない</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase that is used to express insurmountable psychological or physical feelings.</li><li>Meaning: Cannot help -ing; irresistibly; unbearably</li><li>Phrase (used in writing and formal speech only)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>279.md. <a href='items/279.md'>なり~なり</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase to indicate two representative choices/examples.</li><li>Meaning: ~ or ~ (for example); like ~ or ~</li><li>Strength</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>280.md. <a href='items/280.md'>なりに</a></td><td><ul><li>In a way/style that is proper to someone/something.</li><li>Meaning: In one's own way; in one's own style</li><li>Compound Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>281.md. <a href='items/281.md'>なしでは</a></td><td><ul><li>If something/someone is missing.</li><li>Meaning: Without</li><li>Compound Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>282.md. <a href='items/282.md'>ねばならない</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase that indicates duty, obligation or necessity.</li><li>Meaning: Must; have to; should</li><li>Phrase (used in writing and formal speech only)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>283.md. <a href='items/283.md'>に</a></td><td><ul><li>A sentence final particle that expresses the speaker's feeling of great regret or sympathy.</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>284.md. <a href='items/284.md'>に当たって/当たり</a></td><td><ul><li>A compound particle that indicates occasion of doing something or of having done something in formal Japanese.</li><li>Meaning: On the occasion of; at; in; before; prior to</li><li>Compound Particle (used in writing and formal speech only)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>285.md. <a href='items/285.md'>に反して/反する</a></td><td><ul><li>Contrary to or in contrast to.</li><li>Meaning: Against; contrary to; in contrast to; in violation of; while; whereas</li><li>Compound Particle (used in writing and formal speech only)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>286.md. <a href='items/286.md'>にほかならない</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase that is used to indicate that an action/state mentioned in the topic phrase or clause is nothing but something.</li><li>Meaning: Be nothing but ~; be simply ~</li><li>Phrase (used in writing and formal speech only)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>287.md. <a href='items/287.md'>に限らず</a></td><td><ul><li>Not limiting something to ~.</li><li>Meaning: Not limited to ~ (but also); not only ~ (but also)</li><li>Compound Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>288.md. <a href='items/288.md'>に限って</a></td><td><ul><li>A compound particle to show that only X is different from others.</li><li>Meaning: (X) of all (X's); only</li><li>Compound Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>289.md. <a href='items/289.md'>に関して/関する</a></td><td><ul><li>Related to.</li><li>Meaning: Concerning; with regard to; about; on</li><li>Compound Particle (used in writing and formal speech only)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>290.md. <a href='items/290.md'>に代わって</a></td><td><ul><li>A compound particle to express replacement or substitution of a regular person/thing by someone/something.</li><li>Meaning: In place of; replacing; on behalf of</li><li>Compound Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>291.md. <a href='items/291.md'>に比べると/比べて</a></td><td><ul><li>If we compare (it) with/to; comparing (it) with.</li><li>Meaning: Compared with/to; when compared with/to; in comparison to</li><li>Compound Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>292.md. <a href='items/292.md'>にもかかわらず</a></td><td><ul><li>Without any relation to a preceding event/situation.</li><li>Meaning: Although; though; in spite of; despite; notwithstanding; nevertheless</li><li>Compound Particle/Conjunction (used in writing and formal speech only)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>293.md. <a href='items/293.md'>に基づいて/基づく</a></td><td><ul><li>With something as a basis.</li><li>Meaning: Based upon</li><li>Compound Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>294.md. <a href='items/294.md'>になると</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase that expresses the time when an uncontrollable state or a habitual action occurs.</li><li>Meaning: When it becomes; when it comes to; when; if</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>295.md. <a href='items/295.md'>において/おける</a></td><td><ul><li>A compound particle which indicates the place of an action/event, a state or time.</li><li>Meaning: At; on; in; during</li><li>Compound Particle (used in writing and formal speech only)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>296.md. <a href='items/296.md'>に従って/従い</a></td><td><ul><li>Something spontaneously and gradually occurs in accordance with some change.</li><li>Meaning: As, accordingly; in proportion to; in accordance with; following</li><li>Compound Particle/Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>297.md. <a href='items/297.md'>に過ぎない</a></td><td><ul><li>Something or someone is nothing more than what is stated in terms of amount, degree, status, significance, etc.</li><li>Meaning: Nothing more than; not more than; mere; merely; only; just; as little/few as; that's all</li><li>Phrase (used in writing and formal speech only)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>298.md. <a href='items/298.md'>に対して/対する</a></td><td><ul><li>Regarding something/someone one opposes, compares, or shows interest in regarding something/someone one opposes, compares or shows interest in.</li><li>Meaning: Toward; to; in contrast to; whereas; in regard to; in; per</li><li>Compound Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>299.md. <a href='items/299.md'>にとって</a></td><td><ul><li>From the standpoint of; so far as someone (or something) is concerned.</li><li>Meaning: To; for</li><li>Compound Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>300.md. <a href='items/300.md'>について</a></td><td><ul><li>Concerning something/someone.</li><li>Meaning: About; on; concerning; regarding; with regard to; of</li><li>Compound Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>301.md. <a href='items/301.md'>につき</a></td><td><ul><li>A compound particle which expresses a rate or ratio.</li><li>Meaning: A; per; for; on; to</li><li>Compound Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>302.md. <a href='items/302.md'>につれて/つれ</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase used to indicate that a change occurs in accordance with another simultaneous change.</li><li>Meaning: As; in proportion to; with</li><li>Conjunction/Compound Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>303.md. <a href='items/303.md'>には</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction/compound particle to indicate a purpose for doing something.</li><li>Meaning: To; in order to; for; for the purpose of ~</li><li>Conjunction/Compound Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>304.md. <a href='items/304.md'>によって/より</a></td><td><ul><li>A particle that indicates means, cause, agent of passive sentence, or dependency on a situation.</li><li>Meaning: According to; due to; owing to; because of; depending on; from ~ to; by means of; on the basis of; with; by</li><li>Compound Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>305.md. <a href='items/305.md'>の関係で</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase indicating that something takes place or does not take place because of something.</li><li>Meaning: Because of</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>306.md. <a href='items/306.md'>のこと</a></td><td><ul><li>Things of/about.</li><li>Meaning: About; in terms of; related to</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>307.md. <a href='items/307.md'>のことだから</a></td><td><ul><li>Because it is a matter of X with which/whom something is habitually the case.</li><li>Meaning: Because ~ is habitually/usually/often that way; because</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>308.md. <a href='items/308.md'>のみ</a></td><td><ul><li>A particle which expresses a limit imposed upon an action, event, or a state.</li><li>Meaning: Only; just; alone</li><li>Phrase (used in writing and formal speech only)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>309.md. <a href='items/309.md'>の下で</a></td><td><ul><li>Under some object; under the control or influence of someone or something.</li><li>Meaning: Under; in; with</li><li>Compound Particle (used in writing and formal speech only)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>310.md. <a href='items/310.md'>の上では</a></td><td><ul><li>As far as ~ is concerned.</li><li>Meaning: As far as ~ is concerned; as far as ~ goes; from the viewpoint/standpoint of; according to; in terms of</li><li>Compound Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>311.md. <a href='items/311.md'>のは~のことだ</a></td><td><ul><li>A structure which focuses on a time when something takes place.</li><li>Meaning: It will be/was ~ when/that ~</li><li>Structure</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>312.md. <a href='items/312.md'>ぬ</a></td><td><ul><li>An archaic auxiliary that indicates negation.</li><li>Meaning: Not</li><li>Auxiliary (used in writing and formal speech only)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>313.md. <a href='items/313.md'>お~だ</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase which expresses the speaker's respect for someone when describing that person's action or state.</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>314.md. <a href='items/314.md'>をはじめ（として）</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase that is used to give a primary example.</li><li>Meaning: Starting with; not only ~ but also ~</li><li>Phrase (used in writing and formal speech only)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>315.md. <a href='items/315.md'>お~下さい</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase which expresses a highly polite request.</li><li>Meaning: Please do something.</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>316.md. <a href='items/316.md'>思われる</a></td><td><ul><li>A verb that indicates what the speaker/writer feels spontaneously or his/her hesitation about asserting himself/herself.</li><li>Meaning: Seem; appear; apparently</li><li>Verb (Group 2) (used in writing and formal speech only)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>317.md. <a href='items/317.md'>おり</a></td><td><ul><li>Vます of the auxiliary verb おる.</li><li>Meaning: Be ~ and</li><li>Auxiliary Verb (Group 1) (used in writing and formal speech only)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>318.md. <a href='items/318.md'>を通して</a></td><td><ul><li>A compound particle that is used to indicate a medium through which something is done or time through which something takes place.</li><li>Meaning: Through; by the medium of; via; throughout</li><li>Compound Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>319.md. <a href='items/319.md'>っぱなし</a></td><td><ul><li>An auxiliary which expresses the idea that someone or something keeps doing something, or someone leaves something in an improper state.</li><li>Meaning: Keep -ing; have been -ing; leave</li><li>Auxiliary</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>320.md. <a href='items/320.md'>っぽい</a></td><td><ul><li>A suffix that indicates someone/something has some distinctive characteristic or an attribute identified by a noun, an adjective, or a verb to which the suffix is attached.</li><li>Meaning: Apt to; easy to; -ish; -like</li><li>Adjective (い) Suffix</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>321.md. <a href='items/321.md'>来</a></td><td><ul><li>During a certain amount of time (something has continued up until the moment of speech or something has never been like the current state).</li><li>Meaning: For; in; since</li><li>Suffix (used in writing and formal speech only)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>322.md. <a href='items/322.md'>例の</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase which signals that the referent of the following noun phrase is definite and that the speaker expects the hearer to understand what the referent is.</li><li>Meaning: The ~ (in question); that (same); the usual</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>323.md. <a href='items/323.md'>Relative Clause</a></td><td><ul></ul></td></tr><tr><td>324.md. <a href='items/324.md'>Rhetorical Question</a></td><td><ul><li>A question which functions as a forceful statement with no expected response.</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>325.md. <a href='items/325.md'>ろくに~ない</a></td><td><ul><li>A structure that is used to indicate that something animate does not or cannot do something satisfactorily/sufficiently/properly.</li><li>Meaning: Not sufficiently; not satisfactorily; not properly; not well; hardly</li><li>Structure</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>326.md. <a href='items/326.md'>さ</a></td><td><ul><li>A sentence final particle used in highly informal speech by male speakers to express different degrees of assertion ranging from a light touch comment up to opposition or imposition.</li><li>Meaning: You know; sure; I tell you</li><li>Particle (used in conversation only)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>327.md. <a href='items/327.md'>さえ</a></td><td><ul><li>An emphatic particle which expresses the idea of \"even\" in non-conditional clauses (or sentences) or the idea of \"only\" in conditional clauses.</li><li>Meaning: Even; if ~ only; if ~ just; as long as; the only thing ~ need is</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>328.md. <a href='items/328.md'>際（に）</a></td><td><ul><li>On the special occasion of/when.</li><li>Meaning: When; on the occasion of; at the time of</li><li>Noun/Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>329.md. <a href='items/329.md'>さすが</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverb that expresses the speaker's/writer's strong feeling that something has turned out as s/he expected.</li><li>Meaning: As might be expected; after all; it is only natural that ~; naturally; truly; really; indeed; impressive</li><li>Adverb</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>330.md. <a href='items/330.md'>せい</a></td><td><ul><li>A dependent noun expressing a cause which brings about an undesirable result.</li><li>Meaning: Because; due to</li><li>Noun</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>331.md. <a href='items/331.md'>せめて</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverb that indicates the speaker/writer's minimally satisfactory level.</li><li>Meaning: At least</li><li>Adverb</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>332.md. <a href='items/332.md'>次第</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction/noun to express that an action indicated by a preceding verb or an action implied by a preceding noun is a prerequisite for another action.</li><li>Meaning: As soon as; depend on</li><li>Conjunction/Noun</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>333.md. <a href='items/333.md'>しかも</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction which is used to provide additional important information.</li><li>Meaning: Moreover; furthermore; besides; on top of that; what's more; what's worse; more surprisingly; at that; nevertheless; and yet; even so</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>334.md. <a href='items/334.md'>したがって</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction that is used to indicate that a result/situation follows necessarily from the foregoing situation.</li><li>Meaning: Therefore; accordingly; consequently</li><li>Conjunction (used in writing and formal speech only)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>335.md. <a href='items/335.md'>そうかと言って</a></td><td><ul><li>A structure which expresses that the speaker/writer cannot easily accept the corollary from the preceding statement owing to some circumstances, although he feels like accepting it</li><li>Meaning: But; yet; even so</li><li>Phrase/Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>336.md. <a href='items/336.md'>そこで</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction which connects a situation presented as a reason and an action taken because of that situation</li><li>Meaning: So; because of that; therefore</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>337.md. <a href='items/337.md'>そこで (2)</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction which connects an event and an action taken at the time of the event</li><li>Meaning: Then; at that time</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>338.md. <a href='items/338.md'>そこを</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction used to indicate that in spite of the negative situation mentioned in the previous part of the sentence/discourse some positive effort is made.</li><li>Meaning: But; in spite of that</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>339.md. <a href='items/339.md'>そうになる</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase expressing that something almost happens.</li><li>Meaning: Almost</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>340.md. <a href='items/340.md'>その上</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction which introduces an additional, emphatic statement.</li><li>Meaning: On top of that; besides; moreover; furthermore; what's more; what's worse; not only ~ but also</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>341.md. <a href='items/341.md'>それでも</a></td><td><ul><li>In spite of the circumstance expressed in the preceding sentence.</li><li>Meaning: Nevertheless; yet; but in spite of that; even so</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>342.md. <a href='items/342.md'>それどころか</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction that is used to indicate that the level/degree of a fact or a situation expressed in the second sentence is far above or below the level/degree of a fact or a situation expressed in the first sentence.</li><li>Meaning: On the contrary; far from that; as a matter of fact</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>343.md. <a href='items/343.md'>それが</a></td><td><ul><li>An interjection which signals that the speaker is going to provide an unexpected response to a question.</li><li>Meaning: Well (contrary to your expectation; I'm afraid to say this, but)</li><li>Interjection (used in conversation only)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>344.md. <a href='items/344.md'>それも</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction which is used to add more specific information to information about a rather uncommon action or state.</li><li>Meaning: What's more; what's worse; at that; furthermore; moreover; on top of that</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>345.md. <a href='items/345.md'>それに</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction which introduces an additional item or statement.</li><li>Meaning: (and) in addition; moreover; furthermore; what's more; on top of that</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>346.md. <a href='items/346.md'>それと</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction which introduces an additional item or statement.</li><li>Meaning: And; also; in addition; as well</li><li>Conjunction (used in conversation only)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>347.md. <a href='items/347.md'>それは</a></td><td><ul><li>An interjection which is used when the speaker emphatically provides an expected response to a question.</li><li>Meaning: (yes,) naturally; (yes,) of course; oh, surely</li><li>Interjection (used in conversation only)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>348.md. <a href='items/348.md'>それぞれ</a></td><td><ul><li>Each of two or more things/persons.</li><li>Meaning: Each; respectively</li><li>Adverb</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>349.md. <a href='items/349.md'>すぐ</a></td><td><ul><li>Without having much temporal or physical distance.</li><li>Meaning: At once; soon; right away; immediately; readily; instantly; easily; right</li><li>Adverb</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>350.md. <a href='items/350.md'>たびに</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction to express that each time someone/something does something, something else takes place.</li><li>Meaning: Every time; each time; on every occasion; whenever</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>351.md. <a href='items/351.md'>ただ</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverb which emphasizes the idea of \"only\".</li><li>Meaning: Only; just; simply; that's all</li><li>Adverb</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>352.md. <a href='items/352.md'>ただの</a></td><td><ul><li>Not deserving to be mentioned.</li><li>Meaning: Usual; ordinary; plain; common; rank and file</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>353.md. <a href='items/353.md'>確かに~が</a></td><td><ul><li>A structure which expresses the idea \"indeed ~ but\".</li><li>Meaning: Indeed ~ but; certainly ~ but; truly ~ but; it is true that ~ but; I admit that ~ but; definitely ~ but</li><li>Structure</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>354.md. <a href='items/354.md'>たところで</a></td><td><ul><li>Even if an action or a state were realised.</li><li>Meaning: Even if</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>355.md. <a href='items/355.md'>て</a></td><td><ul><li>After/since a point in time at which something takes place.</li><li>Meaning: And; since; having done something</li><li>て Form</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>356.md. <a href='items/356.md'>て初めて</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase which expresses the idea that someone does something or something happens only after something else happens or something else is done.</li><li>Meaning: Not until; only after; for the first time</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>357.md. <a href='items/357.md'>点（で）</a></td><td><ul><li>A noun which expresses the idea of \"a point of argument; a point of evaluation; a point of view\".</li><li>Meaning: Point; respect; regard; aspect; way; in terms of; -wise; in that; as far as ~ is concerned</li><li>Noun</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>358.md. <a href='items/358.md'>ては</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction which presents an action/state as a topic about which a negative comment is given.</li><li>Meaning: If; when; because</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>359.md. <a href='items/359.md'>と</a></td><td><ul><li>A particle which makes an adverbial clause, with a verb of saying/thinking/understood after it.</li><li>Meaning: (thinking/saying) that ~; because; like; in such a way that ~</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>360.md. <a href='items/360.md'>と同時に</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase which is used to express the idea that someone does something or something takes place at the same time as another action or event, or that someone or something is in two states simultaneously.</li><li>Meaning: At the same time (as); at the time; when; as; while; as well as ~</li><li>Compound Particle/Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>361.md. <a href='items/361.md'>と言っても</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase which is used to clarify a statement in the preceding discourse which might be misleading.</li><li>Meaning: Although ~ say/said that ~; even though ~ say/said that ~</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>362.md. <a href='items/362.md'>という風に</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase which expresses a manner or a way in which someone does something.</li><li>Meaning: In such a way that; in such a fashion to suggest/show (etc.) that; as if to say/show (etc.) that</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>363.md. <a href='items/363.md'>ということは</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase which changes a sentence into a topic noun clause.</li><li>Meaning: That; the fact that</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>364.md. <a href='items/364.md'>というのに</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction to indicate that an action/state takes place quite contrary to one's expectation.</li><li>Meaning: But; although; in spite of the fact that ~</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>365.md. <a href='items/365.md'>というのは~ことだ</a></td><td><ul><li>A structure which is used in interpreting, explaining, or defining a word, a phrase, or a sentence.</li><li>Meaning: Mean; the meaning of ~ is; what ~ means is</li><li>Structure</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>366.md. <a href='items/366.md'>と言うと</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase which is used when something which someone has mentioned causes an involuntary response.</li><li>Meaning: When ~ mention; if ~ say that ~; when ~ say that ~; when it comes to</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>367.md. <a href='items/367.md'>というより（は）</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase that is used to indicate more accurate characterisation of someone or something.</li><li>Meaning: Rather than; more ~ than ~</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>368.md. <a href='items/368.md'>とかで</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction that is used to give an uncertain reason for something.</li><li>Meaning: For some reason like ~; saying something like ~; because ~ or something like that</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>369.md. <a href='items/369.md'>ところ</a></td><td><ul><li>A dependent noun which is used to express the idea that when someone did something, something took place as the result.</li><li>Meaning: When; then</li><li>Noun (used in writing and formal speech only)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>370.md. <a href='items/370.md'>ところが</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction which is used to present what in fact happened or what is in fact the case when something else was/is expected.</li><li>Meaning: However; but</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>371.md. <a href='items/371.md'>とも</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction in written Japanese that is used to express a concession.</li><li>Meaning: No matter ~ may be; even if; at ~ -est</li><li>Conjunction (used in writing and formal speech only)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>372.md. <a href='items/372.md'>となる</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase which expresses the idea that someone or something becomes something.</li><li>Meaning: Become</li><li>Phrase (used in writing and formal speech only)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>373.md. <a href='items/373.md'>となると</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase which expresses the idea \"when it comes to\" or \"if it is true that\".</li><li>Meaning: When it comes to; if it is true that ~; if it is the case that ~; if it turns out that ~</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>374.md. <a href='items/374.md'>通り（に）</a></td><td><ul><li>A dependent noun which expresses the idea that someone does something or something takes place in the same way as something else.</li><li>Meaning: (in) the same way as; (in) the way; as</li><li>Noun</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>375.md. <a href='items/375.md'>とする (1)</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase indicating that someone assumes something.</li><li>Meaning: Assume that; regard ~ as; let; suppose</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>376.md. <a href='items/376.md'>とする (2)</a></td><td><ul><li>To have a sensory or psychological experience.</li><li>Meaning: Feel ~; look ~</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>377.md. <a href='items/377.md'>途端（に）</a></td><td><ul><li>A noun/adverb which expresses the idea that 'something occurred the moment someone did something or something took place'.</li><li>Meaning: The moment; just as; as soon as; then</li><li>Noun/Adverb</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>378.md. <a href='items/378.md'>とうとう</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverb that is used to express the eventual arrival of an expected situation.</li><li>Meaning: Finally; at (long) last; eventually; in the end; after all</li><li>Adverb</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>379.md. <a href='items/379.md'>と共に</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase which is used to express the idea that A and B share a common property or do the same thing together, that two things take place at the same time, or that someone or something possesses two properties.</li><li>Meaning: As well as; with; along with; at the same time; when, as; while</li><li>Phrase (used in writing and formal speech only)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>380.md. <a href='items/380.md'>とは限らない</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase which expresses the idea \"not necessarily\".</li><li>Meaning: Not always; not necessarily</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>381.md. <a href='items/381.md'>つまり</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverb that is used to summarise or rephrase what has been mentioned/stated in the preceding context.</li><li>Meaning: That is (to say); namely; in short; to sum up; in other words; after all; that means</li><li>Adverb</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>382.md. <a href='items/382.md'>つつ</a></td><td><ul><li>(1) an auxiliary which expresses an action in progress; (2) a conjunction which is used to present two concurrent actions.</li><li>Meaning: -ing; while; although</li><li>Auxiliary/Conjunction (used in writing and formal speech only)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>383.md. <a href='items/383.md'>（の）上で</a></td><td><ul><li>A compound particle that is used to express a preparatory action for a relatively important action.</li><li>Meaning: Upon ~; after ~</li><li>Compound Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>384.md. <a href='items/384.md'>上（に）</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction which introduces an additional, emphatic statement.</li><li>Meaning: As well; in addition; besides; furthermore; moreover; not only ~ but also</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>385.md. <a href='items/385.md'>得る　（うる・える）</a></td><td><ul><li>An auxiliary verb that expresses possibility.</li><li>Meaning: Can; possible; -able</li><li>Auxiliary Verb (Group 2) (used in writing and formal speech only)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>386.md. <a href='items/386.md'>Vmasu</a></td><td><ul><li>A continuative form of a verb which means \"V and...\".</li><li>Meaning: And; -ing</li><li>Verb</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>387.md. <a href='items/387.md'>Vmasu as a Noun</a></td><td><ul><li>Vます used as a regular noun.</li><li>Noun</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>388.md. <a href='items/388.md'>は</a></td><td><ul><li>A particle which emphatically affirms or negates the proposition represented by the preceding verbal and other related elements.</li><li>Meaning: [emphatic] {do/does/did} V; will V; {am/are/is/was/were} Adjective/Noun; (not) V/Adjective/Noun</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>389.md. <a href='items/389.md'>は言うまでもなく</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverbial phrase that conveys the meaning of 'not to speak of something/someone'.</li><li>Meaning: Not to speak of; let alone; not to mention; to say nothing of</li><li>Adverbial Phrase (used in writing and formal speech only)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>390.md. <a href='items/390.md'>わけだ</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase which presents a fact or truth known to the hearer as an introduction to a following statement, or which gives emphasis to a fact or truth which the hearer might not know.</li><li>Meaning: As you know; the fact is that ~; the truth of the matter is that ~</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>391.md. <a href='items/391.md'>わけではない</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase which is used to deny what is implied in the previous or following statement.</li><li>Meaning: It does not mean that ~; I don't mean that ~; it is not that ~; it is not true that ~; it is not the case that</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>392.md. <a href='items/392.md'>わけがない</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase which negates the existence of a reason to believe that someone does something or is in some state, or that something takes place; or which negates a possibility of someone's doing something or being in some state, or something's taking place.</li><li>Meaning: There is no reason why ~; it is impossible (for ~) to ~; cannot</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>393.md. <a href='items/393.md'>わけにはいかない</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase which is used to indicate that one cannot do something due to an external circumstance.</li><li>Meaning: Cannot; cannot but ~; cannot help -ing; have no (other) choice but to ~</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>394.md. <a href='items/394.md'>やる (1)</a></td><td><ul><li>To cause something/someone to move to a place or to do/eat/drink something.</li><li>Meaning: Send; give; do; play; operate; eat; drink</li><li>Verb (Group 1)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>395.md. <a href='items/395.md'>やる (2)</a></td><td><ul><li>An auxiliary verb which expresses the idea that someone does something undesirable to someone else when he/she knows his/her action will cause hardship or trouble.</li><li>Meaning: (knowing that it will cause someone trouble/difficulty)</li><li>Auxiliary Verb (Group 1)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>396.md. <a href='items/396.md'>やっと</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverb to indicate that something desirable has been finally achieved or will be eventually achieved though with great difficulty.</li><li>Meaning: Finally; at last; barely</li><li>Adverb</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>397.md. <a href='items/397.md'>よう (1)</a></td><td><ul><li>A noun forming suffix which means a way (of doing something).</li><li>Meaning: A/the way to; a/the way of -ing; the way (someone does something)</li><li>Suffix</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>398.md. <a href='items/398.md'>よう (2)</a></td><td><ul><li>An auxiliary verb that expresses the writer's conjecture about some potentiality or his certainty about a given state of affairs.</li><li>Meaning: Probably; likely; must be; should; ought; naturally</li><li>Auxiliary (used in writing and formal speech only)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>399.md. <a href='items/399.md'>より</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverb which forms the comparative of an adjective or an adverb to mean 'more ~ than now or than otherwise'.</li><li>Meaning: More ~ (than now; than something at present; than otherwise)</li><li>Adverb</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>400.md. <a href='items/400.md'>ざるを得ない</a></td><td><ul><li>An auxiliary indicating that there is no other choice but to do something.</li><li>Meaning: Cannot help -ing; cannot (help) but; have no choice but to ~; have to</li><li>Auxiliary (used in writing and formal speech only)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>401.md. <a href='items/401.md'>ぞ</a></td><td><ul><li>A sentence final particle that emphasises a male speaker's emotion about something in his monologue or his strong desire to draw someone else's attention.</li><li>Meaning: I tell you; I'm telling you; you know</li><li>Particle (used in conversation only)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>402.md. <a href='items/402.md'>あえて</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverb that expresses the speaker's/writer's desire or will to dare to do something in spite of difficulty, danger or opposition.</li><li>Meaning: Daringly; boldly; dare to ~; venture to ~; force oneself to ~</li><li>Adverb</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>403.md. <a href='items/403.md'>あげく（に）</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverb/conjunction indicating that one spends an extended period of time before reaching a result.</li><li>Meaning: in the end; finally; eventually; after</li><li>Adverb/Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>404.md. <a href='items/404.md'>あくまでも</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverb that represents the idea of \"to the utmost degree\".</li><li>Meaning: to the end; persistently; insist; strictly; just; under any circumstance; absolutely; never; completely; ultimately</li><li>Adverb</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>405.md. <a href='items/405.md'>あながち～ない</a></td><td><ul><li>A structure that indicates that something is not necessarily the way the speaker/writer thought.</li><li>Meaning: (not) necessarily; (not) always</li><li>Structure (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>406.md. <a href='items/406.md'>あるいは</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction that marks alternatives</li><li>Meaning: or; either ~ or; perhaps</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>407.md. <a href='items/407.md'>あたかも</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverb used to present a counter-factual statement emphatically</li><li>Meaning: (just) as if ~ were; (just) as if ~ did ~; just like; just; exactly</li><li>Adverb (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>408.md. <a href='items/408.md'>ばかりに</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction indicating that a single factor causes a negative situation.</li><li>Meaning: Simply because; just because; simply on account of ~</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>409.md. <a href='items/409.md'>ばこそ</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction that emphasizes a reason</li><li>Meaning: it is precisely because ~ that ~; only because ~; to the extent that ~</li><li>Conjunction (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>410.md. <a href='items/410.md'>べからず・べからざる</a></td><td><ul><li>An auxiliary verb that indicates a strong prohibition.</li><li>Meaning: Shouldn’t; must not; ought not to ~; cannot; don’t ~</li><li>Auxiliary (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>411.md. <a href='items/411.md'>べく</a></td><td><ul><li>The verb modification form of the auxiliary bekida, which is used to indicate a purpose or aim.</li><li>Meaning: In order to; to; for the purpose of; for; so that ~ (can)</li><li>Auxiliary (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>412.md. <a href='items/412.md'>べくもない</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase meaning “it is impossible to do something”</li><li>Meaning: Impossible; there is no way for someone to ~; cannot be expected to</li><li>Phrase (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>413.md. <a href='items/413.md'>べくして</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase used when something occurs/occured exactly as expected</li><li>Meaning: Exactly as expected</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>414.md. <a href='items/414.md'>ちなみに</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction to indicate that what follows is additional information related to the previously stated main theme</li><li>Meaning: Incidentally; in this connection</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>415.md. <a href='items/415.md'>だけ</a></td><td><ul><li>A particle meaning “to the extent that someone (can/wants to) do something or something can happen”.</li><li>Meaning: As much as; as ~ as possible; as much as one wants</li><li>Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>416.md. <a href='items/416.md'>だけあって</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase that means “and as one would expect” or “for good reason”.</li><li>Meaning: And as one would expect; so (naturally); for good reason</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>417.md. <a href='items/417.md'>だけに</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase that carries the idea “as one would expect”.</li><li>Meaning: And as one would expect; so (naturally); because</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>418.md. <a href='items/418.md'>だけのことはある</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase expressing an evaluative comment regarding how something is contributing to an expected, remarkable result.</li><li>Meaning: Don’t do something for nothing; ~ explains it; no wonder; it’s no surprise</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>419.md. <a href='items/419.md'>だに</a></td><td><ul><li>A particle indicating that something expressed by the preceding verb alone produces a certain feeling or the meaning “(not) even doing something; doesn’t even occur”.</li><li>Meaning: Just; (not) even</li><li>Particle (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>420.md. <a href='items/420.md'>だの</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction that lists nouns/quotes inexhaustively.</li><li>Meaning: And (~ and); or (~ or); and things like that</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>421.md. <a href='items/421.md'>だって (1)</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction that indicates a reason.</li><li>Meaning: Because</li><li>Conjunction (usually used in conversation)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>422.md. <a href='items/422.md'>だって (2)</a></td><td><ul><li>A particle meaning “too” or “even”.</li><li>Meaning: Too; also; (not) ~ either; even; any; no matter what/who/how/etc.</li><li>Particle (usually used in conversation)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>423.md. <a href='items/423.md'>であれ</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunctive phrase that expresses the idea of concession.</li><li>Meaning: Even; even if; even though; no matter what/who/how/etc.~ may be; whatever/whoever/etc.~ may be</li><li>Phrase (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>424.md. <a href='items/424.md'>～であれ～であれ</a></td><td><ul><li>A structure that means “no matter which one is the case”</li><li>Meaning: Whether X or Y; be it X or Y; or</li><li>Structure (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>425.md. <a href='items/425.md'>でも・じゃあるまいし</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase expressing the speaker’s belief that someone’s action is based on mistaken identity of himself/herself and also expressing the speaker’s critical comments about someone’s behaviour.</li><li>Meaning: You are not ~, so; it isn’t ~, so</li><li>Phrase (usually used in conversation)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>426.md. <a href='items/426.md'>～でも[Wh. word]でも</a></td><td><ul><li>A structure indicating that what is expressed in the main/subordinate clause is applicable to anyone, anything, any place or any time.</li><li>Meaning: ~ whatever; ~ whoever; ~ whenever; ~ whichever</li><li>Structure</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>427.md. <a href='items/427.md'>どちらかと言うと</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase indicating that the speaker/writer chooses one alternative over another in a tentative way.</li><li>Meaning: Rather; more like ~; more of ~; rather on the ~ side; rather than otherwise; more ~ than ~</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>428.md. <a href='items/428.md'>どうか</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverb indicating a polite yet very strong request.</li><li>Meaning: Please</li><li>Adverb</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>429.md. <a href='items/429.md'>どころではない</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase indicating that an action/state is simply impossible due to an adverse situation.</li><li>Meaning: Cannot; be simply impossible; simply don’t/doesn’t have time; be far from ~; anything but ~; no way; far from; be out of question</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>430.md. <a href='items/430.md'>ども</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction that indicates concession based on an actual state or action.</li><li>Meaning: Even though; although; though; no matter how much/often/hard/etc.</li><li>Conjunction (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>431.md. <a href='items/431.md'>どうにも～ない</a></td><td><ul><li>A structure indicating that no matter how hard someone may try, something is impossible.</li><li>Meaning: Not ~ by any means; no matter how hard ~ try, ~ cannot ~; there is no way to ~; cannot do ~ at all</li><li>Structure</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>432.md. <a href='items/432.md'>同士</a></td><td><ul><li>A sufﬁx that adds the meaning of “the same things/people”.</li><li>Meaning: Each other; between/among (things/people of the same kind, group, etc.); together; with</li><li>Suffix</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>433.md. <a href='items/433.md'>が早いか</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction indicating that as soon as something happens, something else happens.</li><li>Meaning: As soon as; the moment; no sooner ~ than</li><li>Conjunction (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>434.md. <a href='items/434.md'>～が～なら</a></td><td><ul><li>A structure presenting a counterfactual situation which indicates that things would be better if something were really good or appropriate.</li><li>Meaning: If someone/something were a really good/appropriate one; if something is right</li><li>Structure</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>435.md. <a href='items/435.md'>ごとし</a></td><td><ul><li>An auxiliary adjective that indicates a resemblance of something/someone to something/someone or indicates how something/someone appears to speaker/writer.</li><li>Meaning: Like; look like</li><li>Auxiliary Adjective (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>436.md. <a href='items/436.md'>反面</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction used to contrast the positive and negative sides of something/someone.</li><li>Meaning: While; on the other hand</li><li>Conjunction (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>437.md. <a href='items/437.md'>はたして</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverb indicating that something occurred as the writer expected, or expressing in a concession clause the writer’s strong doubt.</li><li>Meaning: Just as ~ though; as expected; really; in fact; sure enough; indeed; at all; lo and behold</li><li>Adverb (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>438.md. <a href='items/438.md'>ひいては</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverb indicating that something is perceived to eventually lead to a signiﬁcant result.</li><li>Meaning: Eventually (lead to) ~; even</li><li>Adverb</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>439.md. <a href='items/439.md'>一[Counter]として～ない</a></td><td><ul><li>A structure that means “not a single one\".</li><li>Meaning: Not a single ~; not even one; not any ~</li><li>Structure (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>440.md. <a href='items/440.md'>ひとつ</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverb used when the speaker intends to do something, or asks someone a favour, or makes a suggestion or gives advice to someone.</li><li>Meaning: Give something a try</li><li>Adverb (usually used in conversation)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>441.md. <a href='items/441.md'>一つには</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverb meaning “partly” in a context where someone gives one or two objectives, benefits, examples or reasons for something.</li><li>Meaning: Partly; for one thing</li><li>Adverb</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>442.md. <a href='items/442.md'>一応</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverb indicating that an action or state is only temporary or tentative or is superﬁcially conceived.</li><li>Meaning: For the time being; for the present; for now; tentatively; for formality’s sake; nominally; kind of; sort of</li><li>Adverb (usually used in conversation)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>443.md. <a href='items/443.md'>如何（だ）・いかん（だ）</a></td><td><ul><li>A classic form of the adverb どのように “in what way”.</li><li>Meaning: How; what; (depending on) how/what; (according to) how/what; depend on</li><li>Adverb (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>444.md. <a href='items/444.md'>いかなる</a></td><td><ul><li>A noun modifier that means either “what kind of” or “no matter what”.</li><li>Meaning: What kind of ~; no matter what ~; whatever; any kind of</li><li>Noun Modifier (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>445.md. <a href='items/445.md'>いかに</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverb meaning “how”.</li><li>Meaning: How; how much; how hard</li><li>Adverb (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>446.md. <a href='items/446.md'>いくら</a></td><td><ul><li>A Wh-word that asks about the amount of something.</li><li>Meaning: How much; how</li><li>Interrogative Word</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>447.md. <a href='items/447.md'>今更・いまさら</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverb indicating that someone feels that it is too late to do something.</li><li>Meaning: Too late (for/to ~); now</li><li>Adverb</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>448.md. <a href='items/448.md'>一方（だ）</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase indicating that “something happens continuously” or “someone does something repeatedly”.</li><li>Meaning: Only; always; continue to; keep ~ing; be steadily ~ing; become ~er and ~er</li><li>Phrase (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>449.md. <a href='items/449.md'>一方（で）</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction used to present two concurrent actions/events/states or contrastive situations.</li><li>Meaning: While; when; (but) at the same time; on the other hand; even though; although</li><li>Conjunction (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>450.md. <a href='items/450.md'>以来</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverb meaning “since”</li><li>Meaning: Since</li><li>Adverb</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>451.md. <a href='items/451.md'>一切～ない</a></td><td><ul><li>A structure that means “not at all”.</li><li>Meaning: Not ~ at all; absolutely not; not ~ whatsoever</li><li>Structure (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>452.md. <a href='items/452.md'>一旦・いったん</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverb meaning “once” or “for a short time”.</li><li>Meaning: Once; for a time; temporarily; for the moment; for the present; now</li><li>Adverb</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>453.md. <a href='items/453.md'>言ってみれば</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase signalling a comparison (including the use of simile and metaphor), a deﬁnition, or an explanation.</li><li>Meaning: Figuratively speaking; so to speak; metaphorically speaking; in a manner of saying</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>454.md. <a href='items/454.md'>言うまでもない</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase indicating that what the speaker/writer expresses is generally known but that he/she presents it as a reminder.</li><li>Meaning: It is needless to say that ~; needless to say; it goes without saying</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>455.md. <a href='items/455.md'>言わば</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverb that means “if I were to say it some way (or a different way)”.</li><li>Meaning: So to speak; as it were; like; sort of</li><li>Adverb</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>456.md. <a href='items/456.md'>いわゆる</a></td><td><ul><li>A noun modifier that means “known generally by this term”.</li><li>Meaning: So-called; what we call; known as</li><li>Noun Modifer</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>457.md. <a href='items/457.md'>自体</a></td><td><ul><li>A dependent noun that is used to emphasize the referent of the preceding noun.</li><li>Meaning: Oneself; in and of itself; the very</li><li>Noun</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>458.md. <a href='items/458.md'>限りだ</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase that indicates the extreme degree of the speaker’s/writer’s emotion — happiness, sorrow, envy, shame or loneliness, among others</li><li>Meaning: extremely</li><li>Phrase (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>459.md. <a href='items/459.md'>甲斐・かい・がい</a></td><td><ul><li>A dependent noun that means something is worth someone’s effort.</li><li>Meaning: Worth; meaning; effect; result</li><li>Noun</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>460.md. <a href='items/460.md'>か否か</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunctive phrase indicating that the speaker/writer is wondering whether something is the case or not.</li><li>Meaning: Whether X or not</li><li>Phrase (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>461.md. <a href='items/461.md'>かな</a></td><td><ul><li>An interjection that expresses deep felt emotion.</li><li>Meaning: How ~ !; what a(n) ~ !; to my/our ~; it is ~ that</li><li>Interjection (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>462.md. <a href='items/462.md'>かのように</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunctive phrase that forms an adverbial clause which describes the way someone/something appears to the writer, contrary to reality.</li><li>Meaning: As if</li><li>Phrase (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>463.md. <a href='items/463.md'>から言って</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase that means either “in terms of” or “judging from”.</li><li>Meaning: In terms of; from the viewpoint of; judging from</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>464.md. <a href='items/464.md'>からなる</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase indicating that something consists of more than one member/constituent.</li><li>Meaning: Consist of; be composed of</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>465.md. <a href='items/465.md'>からには</a></td><td><ul><li>A subordinate conjunction meaning “now that,” “once someone does / has done something” or “so long as”.</li><li>Meaning: Once; now that ~; as long as ~; so long as ~; if</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>466.md. <a href='items/466.md'>からして</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase that singles out something for emphasis or presents something as a basis for judgment.</li><li>Meaning: Even; judging from</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>467.md. <a href='items/467.md'>仮に</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverb that indicates the speaker’s/writer’s tentative supposition.</li><li>Meaning: Supposing that; suppose; providing that; (even) if</li><li>Adverb</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>468.md. <a href='items/468.md'>かと思うと</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase indicating that an action or state in the dependent clause occurs very closely with another action or state in the clause, or causes another action or state in the main clause.</li><li>Meaning: As soon as (one notices that) ~; soon after; when one thinks/feels that ~</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>469.md. <a href='items/469.md'>且つ・かつ</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction meaning “and” that connects words, phrases and sentences.</li><li>Meaning: And; and also; yet; but; and ~ as well; as well as; moreover</li><li>Conjunction (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>470.md. <a href='items/470.md'>きらいがある</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase indicating that someone or something has an undesirable tendency.</li><li>Meaning: Have a tendency to; tend to; have a touch of ~; have a dash of ~; smack of ~; be slightly ~</li><li>Phrase (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>471.md. <a href='items/471.md'>（っ）きり</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction indicating that since something occurred, nothing has happened and the resultant situation remains unchanged; a particle indicating a strict limitation in terms of number/quantity.</li><li>Meaning: Since; only</li><li>Conjunction/Particle (usually used in conversation)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>472.md. <a href='items/472.md'>っけ</a></td><td><ul><li>A colloquial sentence final particle marking a question.</li><li>Particle (usually used in conversation)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>473.md. <a href='items/473.md'>この上ない</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase that indicates that something or someone is in an extreme state.</li><li>Meaning: Extremely; utterly; very; so; cannot be more; extreme; utmost</li><li>Phrase (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>474.md. <a href='items/474.md'>ことか</a></td><td><ul><li>A sentence final, exclamatory phrase used in written language.</li><li>Meaning: How ~!; what a(n) ~!</li><li>Phrase (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>475.md. <a href='items/475.md'>ことから</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase that expresses a reason or a cause.</li><li>Meaning: Because; due to; from the fact that ~; cause; trigger</li><li>Phrase (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>476.md. <a href='items/476.md'>ことに</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase that expresses the speaker’s/ writer’s emotion or subjective judgment.</li><li>Meaning: It is ~ that; I am ~ that; we are ~ that; to my/our ~; ~ly</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>477.md. <a href='items/477.md'>加えて</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction that means “in addition to what has just been mentioned”.</li><li>Meaning: In addition; and additionally; what’s more</li><li>Conjunction (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>478.md. <a href='items/478.md'>まで（のこと）だ</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase indicating someone’s decision to cope with a negative situation, or a simple, straight forward reason for his/her action.</li><li>Meaning: Just; merely; only</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>479.md. <a href='items/479.md'>まして（や）</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverb expressing the idea that because one statement is true, the subsequent statement is naturally true.</li><li>Meaning: To say nothing of; not to speak of; let alone; still more; much less; all the more reason why</li><li>Adverb</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>480.md. <a href='items/480.md'>また</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverb/conjunction that indicates repetition or addition.</li><li>Meaning: Again; also; too; (not) ~ either; and; additionally; or</li><li>Adverb/Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>481.md. <a href='items/481.md'>滅多に～ない</a></td><td><ul><li>A structure that indicates extremely low frequency.</li><li>Meaning: Rarely; seldom; hardly; almost never</li><li>Structure</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>482.md. <a href='items/482.md'>見るからに</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase indicating that something can be (obviously) recognized through visual cues.</li><li>Meaning: Visibly; obviously; really look; can be easily recognised as; can tell just by looking at ~</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>483.md. <a href='items/483.md'>～も[V]ば～も[V]</a></td><td><ul><li>A structure used to present typical examples of actions, events, situations, people, or things among a number of possibilities.</li><li>Meaning: There are times when ~ and/or ~; sometimes ~ and sometimes ~; sometimes do things like ~ and ~; some (people/etc.) ~ and some (people/etc.) ~</li><li>Structure (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>484.md. <a href='items/484.md'>ものではない</a></td><td><ul><li>A sentence-ﬁnal phrase indicating that one shouldn’t do something, one could not possibly do something, or one naturally cannot do something.</li><li>Meaning: Shouldn’t; not possibly; naturally cannot; cannot bear</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>485.md. <a href='items/485.md'>ものか (1)</a></td><td><ul><li>A rhetorical question marker that expresses a strong negative intention or disagreement.</li><li>Meaning: Definitely not; absolutely not; impossible</li><li>Phrase (usually used in conversation)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>486.md. <a href='items/486.md'>ものか (2)</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase indicating that the speaker wants to do something or is wondering what one he/she should choose.</li><li>Meaning: Wish; wonder if; should</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>487.md. <a href='items/487.md'>ものなら</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction indicating that the preceding clause presents a hypothetical situation that is unlikely to become a reality.</li><li>Meaning: If; if ~ at all</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>488.md. <a href='items/488.md'>ものの</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction that means “although”.</li><li>Meaning: Although; though; even though; but</li><li>Conjunction (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>489.md. <a href='items/489.md'>ものを</a></td><td><ul><li>A disjunctive coordinate conjunction expressing the meaning of “although” with the speaker’s strong feeling of discontent</li><li>Meaning: Although; but</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>490.md. <a href='items/490.md'>もさることながら</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase used to mention something important and then introduce something more signiﬁcant.</li><li>Meaning: ~ is one thing, but; it is true that ~, but; it is the case that ~, but; but more importantly</li><li>Phrase (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>491.md. <a href='items/491.md'>もしくは</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction to disjunctively connect two items or ideas.</li><li>Meaning: or</li><li>Conjunction (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>492.md. <a href='items/492.md'>もっとも</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction used to add a comment indicating that what the speaker/writer has just expressed is not sufﬁcient.</li><li>Meaning: Although; though; but; yet; however</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>493.md. <a href='items/493.md'>向け</a></td><td><ul><li>A suffix that adds the meaning of “aimed at”</li><li>Meaning: For; made for; for the use of; aimed at; directed towards; (directed/shipped/etc.) to</li><li>Suffix</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>494.md. <a href='items/494.md'>むしろ</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverb that indicates one of two things/people/characteristics has been chosen rather than the other to express speaker’s/writer’s desire, preference or judgment.</li><li>Meaning: Rather; instead</li><li>Adverb</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>495.md. <a href='items/495.md'>ないでもない</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase that indicates the speaker/writer hesitantly feels or expresses that something is the case.</li><li>Meaning: Seem to ~; somewhat; rather; may</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>496.md. <a href='items/496.md'>ないことには</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase that means “if something has not taken place, something else won’t/can’t take place”.</li><li>Meaning: If ~ not ~ then; unless</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>497.md. <a href='items/497.md'>ないまでも</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverbial phrase expressing the speaker’s feeling that although an ideal action or state isn’t possible, at least the next best action or state is or should be available.</li><li>Meaning: May not ~ but; even though ~ not; although ~ not</li><li>Phrase (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>498.md. <a href='items/498.md'>ないし（は）</a></td><td><ul><li>A particle that presents two possible choices or the minimum and maximum possible numbers/lengths/weights/etc. of something; or a conjunction that links two possible actions or events.</li><li>Meaning: From ~ to ~; between ~ and ~; or</li><li>Particle/Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>499.md. <a href='items/499.md'>中を</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase that specifies space or time in/through which someone/something does something.</li><li>Meaning: In the midst of; when; while; through; among</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>500.md. <a href='items/500.md'>なくして（は）</a></td><td><ul><li>A compound particle meaning “without something”.</li><li>Meaning: Without; if it were not for ~</li><li>Compound Particle (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>501.md. <a href='items/501.md'>なまじ（っか）</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverb indicating that something (including an action/state) has a positive value which hasn’t been reached, causing something negative.</li><li>Meaning: Halfheartedly; slightly; thoughtlessly; unwisely; inadequately; imperfectly; sort of; a little; somewhat; a bit of</li><li>Adverb</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>502.md. <a href='items/502.md'>並み</a></td><td><ul><li>A noun sufﬁx that adds the meaning “to match”.</li><li>Meaning: About the same level as; like; as (much ~) as; to match; to rival; on a par with; equivalent to</li><li>Suffix</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>503.md. <a href='items/503.md'>何[(Number)+Counter]も</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase that indicates there is a large number of things, people, etc.</li><li>Meaning: Many; tens/thousands/etc. of ~</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>504.md. <a href='items/504.md'>何～ない</a></td><td><ul><li>A structure indicating that something doesn't exist at all.</li><li>Meaning: Doesn’t exist at all; without</li><li>Structure (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>505.md. <a href='items/505.md'>何も～ない</a></td><td><ul><li>A structure indicating that an action is taken for no good reason.</li><li>Meaning: Why ~ have to ~?; it is unnecessary to ~; have no good reason to ~; not need to ~</li><li>Structure (usually used in conversation)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>506.md. <a href='items/506.md'>何らかの</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase used to indicate that the exact nature of something represented by the noun cannot be speciﬁed.</li><li>Meaning: Some; some kind of</li><li>Phrase (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>507.md. <a href='items/507.md'>何ら～ない</a></td><td><ul><li>A structure that is used to express a strong negative statement.</li><li>Meaning: Not ~ at all; not any ~; nothing; no ~ whatsoever</li><li>Structure (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>508.md. <a href='items/508.md'>なんて (1)</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase used as the colloquial version of なんと.</li><li>Meaning: What; how ~!; what a(n) ~!; so</li><li>Phrase (usually used in conversation)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>509.md. <a href='items/509.md'>なんて (2)</a></td><td><ul><li>A colloquial particle used to express a strong feeling such as astonishment, incredulousness, envy, disdain, dislike, happiness, etc.</li><li>Meaning: That; things like</li><li>Particle (usually used in conversation)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>510.md. <a href='items/510.md'>何とか</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverb expressing that someone somehow does something, or something somehow occurs.</li><li>Meaning: Somehow; in some way; in one way or another; manage to</li><li>Adverb</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>511.md. <a href='items/511.md'>なお</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverb that indicates that an action or state is still going on or the degree of something increases; a conjunction indicating that an additional comment follows what has just been said in the preceding sentence.</li><li>Meaning: Still; even more; all the more for ~; additional; and; additionally; furthermore</li><li>Adverb/Conjunction (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>512.md. <a href='items/512.md'>なおさら</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverb indicating that the degree of something increases due to an additional circumstance.</li><li>Meaning: Still more; much more; all the more; even more</li><li>Adverb</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>513.md. <a href='items/513.md'>ならでは（の）</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase indicating something is “impossible if it’s not X”.</li><li>Meaning: Impossible if it’s not ~; only possible with/by/at/etc.; not possible with/by/at/etc. other ~; very difficult with/by/at/etc. any other ~ but; you can expect only/at/from/etc.; unless</li><li>Phrase (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>514.md. <a href='items/514.md'>並びに</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction used to combine two nouns or noun phrases.</li><li>Meaning: And; both ~ and ~; as well as</li><li>Conjunction (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>515.md. <a href='items/515.md'>なり</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction meaning “soon after”.</li><li>Meaning: The moment; when; as soon as; soon after; no sooner ~ than</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>516.md. <a href='items/516.md'>なるほど</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverb indicating that the speaker/writer afﬁrms the correctness of something he/she has heard/read/observed.</li><li>Meaning: Indeed; it is true ~ (but); really; I see</li><li>Adverb</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>517.md. <a href='items/517.md'>なしに</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverbial phrase meaning “without (doing) something”.</li><li>Meaning: Without</li><li>Phrase (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>518.md. <a href='items/518.md'>なす</a></td><td><ul><li>A verb that means “to cause something to happen”</li><li>Meaning: Do; perform; make; change; constitute</li><li>Verb</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>519.md. <a href='items/519.md'>なぜか</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverb indicating that the speaker/writer doesn’t know the cause of/reason for something</li><li>Meaning: I don’t know why; without knowing why; for an unknown reason</li><li>Adverb (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>520.md. <a href='items/520.md'>なぜなら（ば）～からだ</a></td><td><ul><li>A structure used to introduce a reason for the statement in the preceding sentence.</li><li>Meaning: The reason is that ~; because</li><li>Structure (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>521.md. <a href='items/521.md'>んばかり（に）</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverbial phrase that is used when a situation looks as if someone were about to do something or as if something were about to occur literally or ﬁguratively.</li><li>Meaning: As if ~ were about to ~; almost</li><li>Adverbial Phrase (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>522.md. <a href='items/522.md'>願う・願います</a></td><td><ul><li>A verb that expresses a polite request.</li><li>Meaning: Please; ask (for)</li><li>Verb</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>523.md. <a href='items/523.md'>にひきかえ</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase that indicates a sharp contrast.</li><li>Meaning: In contrast to ~; while; whereas</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>524.md. <a href='items/524.md'>にいたっては</a></td><td><ul><li>A compound particle that indicates an extreme example.</li><li>Meaning: When it comes to ~; as for; for example</li><li>Compound Particle (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>525.md. <a href='items/525.md'>にかかわらず・に関/拘/係わらず</a></td><td><ul><li>A compound particle that means “regardless of”</li><li>Meaning: Regardless of; independent of; without reference to; without distinguishing; whether X or Y; whether X or not; whatever/whoever/etc.</li><li>Compound Particle (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>526.md. <a href='items/526.md'>にかけては</a></td><td><ul><li>A compound particle that marks something in which someone excels or has conﬁdence.</li><li>Meaning: When it comes to ~; as for; in point of; in terms of; about; regarding</li><li>Compound Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>527.md. <a href='items/527.md'>にかたくない・に難くない</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase that indicates that it is not hard to imagine or guess a situation.</li><li>Meaning: Not hard; easy ~</li><li>Phrase (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>528.md. <a href='items/528.md'>に決まっている</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase indicating the speaker’s/writer’s strong conviction or motivation.</li><li>Meaning: Surely; be bound to; be a given; of course; must be; we all know that</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>529.md. <a href='items/529.md'>に越したことはない</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase used to indicate that a state or action is more desirable.</li><li>Meaning: Nothing is better than; if possible; be the best; be ideal; the ~ the ~</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>530.md. <a href='items/530.md'>に/ともなると</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase that is used when something or some situation is perceived to be special.</li><li>Meaning: When; if; as</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>531.md. <a href='items/531.md'>に向けて・に向けた</a></td><td><ul><li>A compound particle that indicates the destination/direction of movement, the target/direction of an action, or the goal/purpose of an action.</li><li>Meaning: Toward; to; at; aiming at; targeting; for; for the purpose of; in order to</li><li>Compound Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>532.md. <a href='items/532.md'>～に～ない</a></td><td><ul><li>A sentence structure meaning “someone cannot manage to do something”</li><li>Meaning: Cannot manage to; just cannot; cannot ~ even though ~ want to; cannot ~ despite the fact that ~ want to</li><li>Structure</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>533.md. <a href='items/533.md'>に（も）なく</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase that means something unusual happens or someone does something unusual.</li><li>Meaning: Unusually; more ~ than usual</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>534.md. <a href='items/534.md'>に応じて・応じた</a></td><td><ul><li>A compound particle that means “in response to”.</li><li>Meaning: In response to; according to; depending on; appropriate for; suitable for; suited to; meet</li><li>Compound Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>535.md. <a href='items/535.md'>にしろ・せよ</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunctive phrase that carries the meaning of concession.</li><li>Meaning: Even though (it is/was the case that); even if (it is true that); although (it is/was the case that); whatever/whoever/etc.; no matter what/who/how/etc.; whether X or Y</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>536.md. <a href='items/536.md'>にしたところで</a></td><td><ul><li>A compound particle that means “even” or “also”.</li><li>Meaning: Also; (even) for ~</li><li>Compound Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>537.md. <a href='items/537.md'>にして (1)</a></td><td><ul><li>A compound particle that indicates a period of time/stage (in life) at which some surprising action or state takes place.</li><li>Meaning: In; at; over; while</li><li>Compound Particle (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>538.md. <a href='items/538.md'>にして (2)</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction meaning “and” that is used to combine two noun phrases or な-adjectives.</li><li>Meaning: And; both ~ and ~</li><li>Conjunction (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>539.md. <a href='items/539.md'>にしてからが</a></td><td><ul><li>A compound particle indicating that something unexpected occurs.</li><li>Meaning: even</li><li>Compound Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>540.md. <a href='items/540.md'>にしても</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction that represents the idea of “even if someone decides to do something,” or “even if/though someone decides that something is true/the case”.</li><li>Meaning: Even if (someone decides to/it is true that); although/even though (it is true that/it is the case that/we admit that/we agree that/etc.); whatever/whoever/etc.; no matter what/who/how/etc.; whether X or Y; as for ~, too; even (so)</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>541.md. <a href='items/541.md'>にとどまらず</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase indicating that something goes beyond a spatial/temporal boundary.</li><li>Meaning: Doesn’t stop with ~; doesn’t end with ~; not limited to ~; going beyond ~; not only ~ (but also ~)</li><li>Phrase (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>542.md. <a href='items/542.md'>につけ</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction indicating that each time someone perceives something he/she feels or thinks something associated with it.</li><li>Meaning: As; every time; whenever</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>543.md. <a href='items/543.md'>にわたって・わたる</a></td><td><ul><li>A compound particle indicating that something takes place over a particular span of time or physical space.</li><li>Meaning: For; over; extending; stretching; ranging; covering</li><li>Compound Particle (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>544.md. <a href='items/544.md'>によらず</a></td><td><ul><li>A compound particle that means “without depending on”.</li><li>Meaning: Without; without ~ing; regardless of; independently of; without reference to; whether X or Y; whether X or not; whatever/whoever/etc.; no matter what/who/how/etc.</li><li>Compound Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>545.md. <a href='items/545.md'>によると</a></td><td><ul><li>A compound particle that is used to identify the source of information provided in the sentence.</li><li>Meaning: According to; based on</li><li>Compound Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>546.md. <a href='items/546.md'>のみならず</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase that is used in formal writing to mean “not only”.</li><li>Meaning: Not only ~ (but also ~); not only that</li><li>Phrase (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>547.md. <a href='items/547.md'>のなんのって</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase to emphasize that something/someone is/was in an extreme state or that someone does/did something to a great extent</li><li>Meaning: So (~ that); so much/well (~ that); so ~ and</li><li>Phrase (usually used in conversation)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>548.md. <a href='items/548.md'>の無さ・のなさ</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase that indicates a state where something is lacking.</li><li>Meaning: Lack of; absence of</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>549.md. <a href='items/549.md'>～の～のと</a></td><td><ul><li>A structure that states what is said by someone in order to express the speaker’s disagreement or dissatisfaction.</li><li>Meaning: Saying ~, ~, and so on; saying ~ or ~</li><li>Structure</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>550.md. <a href='items/550.md'>んとする</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase meaning for “someone to try to do something” or for “something to be about to occur”.</li><li>Meaning: Try to do; be about to</li><li>Phrase (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>551.md. <a href='items/551.md'>を中心に</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase that means “with something/someone at the centre”.</li><li>Meaning: Centering around; around; focusing on; mainly; primarily; with ~ as the center; with ~ as the leader; with ~ as the primary ~; take the lead</li><li>Phrase (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>552.md. <a href='items/552.md'>を介して/介した</a></td><td><ul><li>A compound particle that introduces a medium through which someone does something or something happens to someone or something.</li><li>Meaning: Through; via; by means of; by ~ing</li><li>Compound Particle (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>553.md. <a href='items/553.md'>を禁じ得ない</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase that is used when one cannot control emotions or reactions caused by emotions.</li><li>Meaning: Cannot hold; cannot hold back; cannot keep back; cannot help ~ing; cannot keep ~ from ~ing</li><li>Phrase (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>554.md. <a href='items/554.md'>をめぐって・めぐる</a></td><td><ul><li>A compound particle meaning “concerning; over”, which is used with an issue over which different opinions, ideas, etc., are expressed or exchanged.</li><li>Meaning: Centering around; in connection with; over; concerning; regarding; with regard to</li><li>Compound Particle (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>555.md. <a href='items/555.md'>思えば</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverb that indicates feelings of nostalgia or regret when recollecting one’s past experiences.</li><li>Meaning: Come ot think of it; when I think back; on reflection</li><li>Adverb (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>556.md. <a href='items/556.md'>をものともせず</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase indicating that someone does something bravely/fearlessly in spite of unfavourable circumstances.</li><li>Meaning: In spite of ~; undaunted by ~; in definance of ~; in the face of ~</li><li>Phrase (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>557.md. <a href='items/557.md'>思うに</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase indicating that the subsequent statement is the speaker’s/writer’s personal view.</li><li>Meaning: In my view; it seems to me that ~; when I think (about ~); considering</li><li>Phrase (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>558.md. <a href='items/558.md'>をおいてほかに（は）～ない</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase that means “there is nothing else besides X”.</li><li>Meaning: (there is) no ~ but X; X is the only one; nothing else is ~ but X; no other ~ are/do something as ~ as X</li><li>Phrase (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>559.md. <a href='items/559.md'>折(に)</a></td><td><ul><li>A noun indicating special/uncommon and primarily desirable occasions which someone takes advantage of, or where someone is expected to do something or where something desirable takes place.</li><li>Meaning: On the occasion; at the time; when; if; opportunity; chance</li><li>Noun (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>560.md. <a href='items/560.md'>恐れがある</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase that means “it is feared (that)\"</li><li>Meaning: It is feared (that); we fear (that); we are worried/concerned (that); there is a fear/risk/chance/concern/etc.; can; could; may; it is possible (that); be in danger of</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>561.md. <a href='items/561.md'>を問わず</a></td><td><ul><li>A compound particle that means “without questioning”.</li><li>Meaning: Regardless of; irrespective of; without reference to; whether X or Y; whether X or not; whatever/whoever/etc.; no matter what/who/how/etc.</li><li>Compound Particle (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>562.md. <a href='items/562.md'>及び</a></td><td><ul><li>A particle that connects two nouns or noun phrases.</li><li>Meaning: And</li><li>Particle (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>563.md. <a href='items/563.md'>およそ</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverb representing the ideas “all; totally; mostly; approximately”.</li><li>Meaning: Generally; commonly; all; quite entirely; totally; utterly; (not) at all; for the most part; mostly; almost; approximately; roughly; about; rough; general</li><li>Adverb (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>564.md. <a href='items/564.md'>をよそに</a></td><td><ul><li>A compound particle that expresses someone’s indifference to warnings, criticism, advice, accusations, opposition, anxiety, wishes, eagerness, provocative actions, etc.</li><li>Meaning: Indifferent to ~; contrary to ~; ignoring ~; despite</li><li>Compound Particle (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>565.md. <a href='items/565.md'>さも</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverb meaning “truly,” used when describing the way someone’s action or behaviour appears.</li><li>Meaning: Truly; really; as if; so; that way; like that</li><li>Adverb</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>566.md. <a href='items/566.md'>更に</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverb/conjunction that represents the idea of “additionally” or “further”.</li><li>Meaning: Even ~er; even more; additional; more; further; furthermore; in addition</li><li>Adverb/Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>567.md. <a href='items/567.md'>さて</a></td><td><ul><li>An interjection indicating that the speaker/writer is going to talk about something different.</li><li>Meaning: Well; now; well now; so</li><li>Interjection</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>568.md. <a href='items/568.md'>さぞ（かし）</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverb that is used when the speaker thinks that someone or something is in an extreme state.</li><li>Meaning: I believe/I’m sure/I’m certain ~ very/really/truly ~; must be very/really/truly ~</li><li>Adverb</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>569.md. <a href='items/569.md'>そもそも（の）</a></td><td><ul><li>A sentence-modifying adverb used when the speaker/writer comments on or questions a fundamental point.</li><li>Meaning: In the first place; to begin with; first of all; the very (beginning/origin/etc.); original; first; fundamental</li><li>Adverb</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>570.md. <a href='items/570.md'>そのもの</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase used to refer strictly to the preceding noun (phrase) or adjective.</li><li>Meaning: Itself; themselves; very; perfect; the definition of; the picture of; absolutely; totally; utterly; perfectly</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>571.md. <a href='items/571.md'>それだけ</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverbial phrase indicating that the degree of something is proportionate to the degree of the state, action or event mentioned in the preceding sentence.</li><li>Meaning: That much; to the same extent; to the same degree; equally</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>572.md. <a href='items/572.md'>それなりに・の</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase representing the idea that someone/something does something or is in a state in his/her/its own way, or in a way suitable to the situation or generally expected from the situation.</li><li>Meaning: In one’s own way; accompanying; proportionate; suitable; expected; agreeable; reasonable; one’s own; proper to</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>573.md. <a href='items/573.md'>末（に）</a></td><td><ul><li>A noun that indicates the end of a period or the time after long, hard mental or physical work.</li><li>Meaning: After; at the end of</li><li>Noun</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>574.md. <a href='items/574.md'>済む</a></td><td><ul><li>A verb that means “to be finished; to do (in the sense of being enough)”.</li><li>Meaning: Take/cost/need/etc. only ~; do/manage (without/only with); get by/get away (without/only with); be let off (without/only with); be enough (if); be all right (if); not to have to: there is no need for</li><li>Verb</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>575.md. <a href='items/575.md'>ただ</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction that introduces a supplementary remark.</li><li>Meaning: But; however; only; the only thing is that ~</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>576.md. <a href='items/576.md'>但し・ただし</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction indicating that there is a condition, restriction, proviso, etc., to the preceding statement.</li><li>Meaning: However; but; only; here; provided that</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>577.md. <a href='items/577.md'>たかが</a></td><td><ul><li>A noun modiﬁer used when the speaker thinks little of the referent of the modiﬁed noun or noun phrase.</li><li>Meaning: Only; just; mere</li><li>Noun Modifier</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>578.md. <a href='items/578.md'>たなり（で）</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction indicating that a situation or condition remains unaltered.</li><li>Meaning: Without; while ~ staying; while ~ keep ~ing</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>579.md. <a href='items/579.md'>単位で</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase that indicates the smallest amount, number or unit of something (or people) involved.</li><li>Meaning: By the; in sets/groups/lots/etc. of; in multiples of; each; every</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>580.md. <a href='items/580.md'>単に</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverb that means “simply”</li><li>Meaning: Just; only; simply; no more than; nothing but; solely; merely; alone</li><li>Adverb</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>581.md. <a href='items/581.md'>たるや</a></td><td><ul><li>A compound particle used to present a subtopic about which the writer provides surprising or impressive information.</li><li>Meaning: When it comes to ~; speaking of</li><li>Compound Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>582.md. <a href='items/582.md'>（っ）たって (1)</a></td><td><ul><li>The informal form of ても.</li><li>Meaning: Even if; if; whether; no matter what/who/how/etc.</li><li>Conjunction (usually used in conversation)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>583.md. <a href='items/583.md'>（っ）たって (2)</a></td><td><ul><li>The contracted form of と言っても or としても.</li><li>Meaning: Even if (someone says that); even if someone tries to; although</li><li>Phrase (usually used in conversation)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>584.md. <a href='items/584.md'>てばかりはいられない</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase representing the idea that someone cannot just keep doing something or waste time being consumed by some emotion.</li><li>Meaning: Cannot just; cannot always; cannot just keep ~ing; cannot spend time just ~ing; cannot waste time just ~ing</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>585.md. <a href='items/585.md'>～ても～ても</a></td><td><ul><li>A structure meaning “even if someone does something repeatedly”.</li><li>Meaning: No matter how much/often/hard/etc.; no matter how many times</li><li>Structure</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>586.md. <a href='items/586.md'>て仕方がない</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase that represents emotions the speaker/writer cannot control or sensations/situations he/she cannot bear.</li><li>Meaning: Cannot help ~ing; cannot stop feeling; (so ~ and) cannot control ~; so ~ and ~ cannot bare it; so; unbearably</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>587.md. <a href='items/587.md'>てはいられない</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase that is used when someone cannot be doing something or be in some state due to a given situation.</li><li>Meaning: Cannot/shouldn’t be ~ing; cannot/shouldn’t keep ~ing; cannot/shouldn’t (stay/remain/etc.); cannot/shouldn’t waste time ~ing; cannot afford to; cannot help ~ing</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>588.md. <a href='items/588.md'>とあって</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase that introduces a reason when the speaker/writer considers it natural that someone does something or is in some state, or that something takes place for that reason.</li><li>Meaning: Because ~, ~ as expected; because ~, naturally ~; because</li><li>Phrase (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>589.md. <a href='items/589.md'>とあっては</a></td><td><ul><li>A conditional phrase that indirectly presents a factual situation as a reason.</li><li>Meaning: If it is true that; if it is the case that; if; because; since</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>590.md. <a href='items/590.md'>とばかりに</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase that indicates that someone does something in order to convey something or in such a way that someone is convinced that something is the case.</li><li>Meaning: As if; as if to say that; as if ~ were convinced that; as if ~ believed that; as if ~ decided that</li><li>Phrase (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>591.md. <a href='items/591.md'>とでも言うべき</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase that introduces a noun (or noun phrase) to describe the nature of someone or something.</li><li>Meaning: Which could/may be called; which can/could be described as</li><li>Phrase (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>592.md. <a href='items/592.md'>といえども</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction that expresses the idea of “even (though)”.</li><li>Meaning: Even; any; although; though; even though</li><li>Conjunction (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>593.md. <a href='items/593.md'>～といい～といい</a></td><td><ul><li>A structure that introduces multiple perspectives when describing a person or a thing.</li><li>Meaning: In terms of both ~ and ~; in terms of ~ as well as ~; from the perspective of both ~ and ~</li><li>Structure</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>594.md. <a href='items/594.md'>といった</a></td><td><ul><li>A compound particle that introduces examples.</li><li>Meaning: Like; such as; among others</li><li>Compound Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>595.md. <a href='items/595.md'>といったところだ</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase the speaker/writer uses to explain something in a brief/rough manner.</li><li>Meaning: I would say ~; ~ is how I’d put it</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>596.md. <a href='items/596.md'>と言って</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction used at the beginning of a sentence to convey the idea of “however”.</li><li>Meaning: However; but; having said that</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>597.md. <a href='items/597.md'>と言うか</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase used to restate what was just said in order to be more accurate or appropriate.</li><li>Meaning: Or; or rather; or I’d (rather) call it; or I may call it; or I’d (rather) say; or I may say</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>598.md. <a href='items/598.md'>と言うのは</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase that introduces the reason for what has just been said.</li><li>Meaning: (I’m saying this) because; the reason (why I’m saying this) is that; by ~ I mean that; what I mean is that</li><li>Phrase (usually used in conversation)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>599.md. <a href='items/599.md'>~言わず~と言わず</a></td><td><ul><li>A structure indicating that something is the case not only for A and B but also for many other places, things, etc., of X, to which A and B belong</li><li>Meaning: A, B and many other ~; A, B and every ~ else; including: whether X or Y</li><li>Structure</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>600.md. <a href='items/600.md'>ところから</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase that introduces the origins of names, theories, ideas and events.</li><li>Meaning: Because; be caused by the fact that ~; from the fact that ~</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>601.md. <a href='items/601.md'>ともなく</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase indicating that the subject does something without paying much attention, or that when, where, to whom, etc., something took place is unclear.</li><li>Meaning: Without intending to; without paying much attention; unconsciously; mindlessly; don’t know (exactly) who/where/etc. (but); cannot tell (exactly) who/where/etc. (but); (to/from) no particular (person, etc.)</li><li>Phrase (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>602.md. <a href='items/602.md'>ともすると</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase that expresses the idea that something is likely to take place.</li><li>Meaning: Tend to; apt to; be likely to; easily; be bound to</li><li>Phrase (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>603.md. <a href='items/603.md'>との</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase that presents the content of the referent of the following noun (e.g., a report, notice, news, view).</li><li>Meaning: That</li><li>Phrase (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>604.md. <a href='items/604.md'>とても～ない</a></td><td><ul><li>A structure that is used to deny emphatically the ability of someone/something or possibility of an event, state or action</li><li>Meaning: Cannot possibly; totally impossible; there is no possibility; there is no way; not ~ at all; not ~ by any means; by no means</li><li>Structure</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>605.md. <a href='items/605.md'>とは</a></td><td><ul><li>A compound particle marking an event, action or state that the speaker/writer does not expect and that causes him/her to feel some emotion</li><li>Meaning: (not think/expect/etc.) that; (be surprised/be glad/regret/etc.) that</li><li>Compound Particle</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>606.md. <a href='items/606.md'>とは言え</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunctive phrase meaning “although it is said that”</li><li>Meaning: Although (it is said that/someone says that); even though (it is said that/someone says that); admitting that; that being said; however; nevertheless</li><li>Phrase (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>607.md. <a href='items/607.md'>つい</a></td><td><ul><li>An adverb used to describe someone doing something without being able to control himself/herself or used to indicate the closeness of a time or a place.</li><li>Meaning: Unintentionally; without being able to control onself; without meaning to; carelessly; involuntarily; in spite of oneself; just; only</li><li>Adverb</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>608.md. <a href='items/608.md'>ついでに</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase used to express the idea that someone does a second thing at the same time as the first because it takes less time or effort.</li><li>Meaning: When; while (~ at it); as; on one’s way to; since ~ (anyway); as well; at one’s convenience</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>609.md. <a href='items/609.md'>ついては</a></td><td><ul><li>A sentence-initial conjunction that means “with regard to this,” referring to what is stated in the preceding sentence.</li><li>Meaning: Therefore; thus; so; because of this; for this reason; with regard to this</li><li>Conjunction (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>610.md. <a href='items/610.md'>（と言）ったらない</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase used to express a strong sensation or emotion.</li><li>Meaning: So; extremely; indescribably; indescribable; incredibly; awfully; terribly; cannot tell you/describe/etc. how; too much of</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>611.md. <a href='items/611.md'>はあれ</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase expressing the idea “even though there is something”</li><li>Meaning: Even though there is; although there is; there is ~ but</li><li>Phrase (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>612.md. <a href='items/612.md'>は別として</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase used to present an exception or an issue the speaker/writer does not intend to cover as part of a larger statement.</li><li>Meaning: Except for; putting/setting aside; whether X or Y</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>613.md. <a href='items/613.md'>はいいとしても</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase that conveys the meaning “even if I/we accept something, something else is not acceptable”.</li><li>Meaning: Be all right, but; might be all right, but; would be fine, but; would accept ~, but; even if ~ accept; even though ~ accept; although ~ accept</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>614.md. <a href='items/614.md'>はおろか</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase that is used when something is not only true with one thing or person, but also with another thing or person that is less expected or understandable.</li><li>Meaning: Let alone; not only ~ (but also ~); not to mention; to say nothing of; never mind; much less</li><li>Phrase (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>615.md. <a href='items/615.md'>割に（は）</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase that expresses the idea that something is not in proportion to what one would normally expect.</li><li>Meaning: For; despite; although; (not) as much as; (not) ~ because of that; considering</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>616.md. <a href='items/616.md'>～わ～わ</a></td><td><ul><li>A structure that emphatically presents actions, events or states as examples or reasons, or indicates that someone does something or something happens to a great extent.</li><li>Meaning: X and Y; for example, X and Y; because X and Y; so many; so much; one after another</li><li>Structure (usually used in conversation)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>617.md. <a href='items/617.md'>や否や・やいなや</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction that expresses the idea that something happened or someone did something immediately following another event or action.</li><li>Meaning: As soon as; no sooner ~ than; the moment; soon after; immediately after</li><li>Conjunction (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>618.md. <a href='items/618.md'>やら</a></td><td><ul><li>A sentence-ﬁnal particle that marks a self-addressed question.</li><li>Meaning: I wonder (if)</li><li>Particle (usually used in conversation)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>619.md. <a href='items/619.md'>～やら～やら</a></td><td><ul><li>A structure to present things, events, actions, etc., as examples, reasons or possibilities.</li><li>Meaning: X and Y; things like X and Y; X, Y and so on; whether X or Y; whether X or not</li><li>Structure</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>620.md. <a href='items/620.md'>ようでは</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction that presents an undesirable situation, which is assumed to be factual.</li><li>Meaning: If; if it is true that; if it is the case that</li><li>Conjunction</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>621.md. <a href='items/621.md'>ようものなら</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunctive phrase that presents　an undesirable hypothetical situation.</li><li>Meaning: If ~ happen to; if ~ at all; if ~ choose to</li><li>Phrase (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>622.md. <a href='items/622.md'>ようにも（～ない）</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunctive phrase that indicates concession: “even though someone tries to do something, he/she cannot do it for some reason”.</li><li>Meaning: Even though ~ try/want to ~; even though ~ be thinking of doing ~; although ~ try/want to ~; although ~ be thinking of doing ~</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>623.md. <a href='items/623.md'>より・のほか（に）（は）～ない</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase that conveys the idea that there is no other choice than to do something, or that something is true of only one of a select few things.</li><li>Meaning: There is no (other) choice but to; there is no other way than to; have to; nothing but; but; not ~ other than</li><li>Phrase</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>624.md. <a href='items/624.md'>由・よし</a></td><td><ul><li>A dependent noun that marks the content of what the writer has learned.</li><li>Meaning: (I heard/It is said/etc.) that</li><li>Noun (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>625.md. <a href='items/625.md'>ようと・が</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunctive phrase that expresses the idea of concession.</li><li>Meaning: Even if; whatever/whoever/ etc.; no matter what/who/how/etc.; whether X or Y</li><li>Phrase (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>626.md. <a href='items/626.md'>故に・ゆえに</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunction that presents a reason or a cause.</li><li>Meaning: Because; because of; due to; therefore</li><li>Conjunction (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>627.md. <a href='items/627.md'>ずにはおかない</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase that expresses the idea that someone/something necessarily or naturally causes something to happen.</li><li>Meaning: Be bound to; definitely; unmistakably; unquestionably; undoubtedly; without fail; without doubt</li><li>Phrase (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>628.md. <a href='items/628.md'>ずして</a></td><td><ul><li>A phrase meaning “without doing something”.</li><li>Meaning: Without ~ing; before (~ing); with no ~; if ~ do not; when ~ do not</li><li>Phrase (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>629.md. <a href='items/629.md'>ずとも</a></td><td><ul><li>A conjunctive phrase that indicates negative concession: “even if ~ not”.</li><li>Meaning: Without ~ing; even if ~ not; if ~ not</li><li>Phrase (usually used in formal writing and formal speech)</li></ul></td></tr></table>